


.f...U..
fass























.an (manu) 1
.so expl/../macr.t  
.hd I-7 
Harry, Sweeney, Billy, and Herbie disappear.
Rhett, Christine, Polly, Dexter, and Dimitri die.   
.hd 'II-1: On the waterfront'   
Setting: pier on the edge of Jekyll estate. 
Important to establish this setting very early in scene.
Scarlett, Jason, Porky, Sinister, and Vladimir each meet a detective that   
they have contacted to solve a murder from I-7. 
As each meets his or her detective, he or she recaps some portion of the
first act and then is killed.   
Detectives show individual detecting styles in immediate investigation  
of contact's death, then go to Jekyll House.
Important to establish why detectives stay when client drops dead at their  
feet (e.g. received deposit, was told of conditions of will, honour,
friendship, etc.).  
Encounters and gruesomeness should accelerate toward the end of the scene.  
Detectives to be decided at assignment time.
.hd 'II-2: Come up to the Lab'  
Setting: Uncle Cedric's lab underneath Jekyll House.
Harry and Sweeney are captive.  
Signs of Frankenstein monsters under construction are everywhere.   

We discover Billy singing:  
.to 5   
My Herbie is infested with several kinds of fleas   
The insects all are vectors of terminal disease 
Of measles, chickenpox, and flu 
And mutant strains of typhoid too   
Genetic research has a way with recombinant DNA.
.tn 
Billy is happy to be in a sophisticated lab; perhaps he is building 
bride of Herbie.
When Billy feeds Herbie Billy's own food, Herbie starts foaming at mouth.   
Clearly, Herbie is on the roof and Billy can't get him down.
Someone must have planned to kill Billy in this way.
Billy is forced to shoot Herbie in a heart-rending scene.   
Harry and Sweeney suddenly demand to be released.   
Billy explains he didn't put them up there, the mad scientist did.  
Enter mad scientist and assistant(s).   
They plan to use Sweeney and Harry for spare parts. 
Suddenly, the scientist recognizes Harry as his own work.   
Harry doesn't believe it, of course.
(It's possible during this scene that various people will drop off more 
spare parts: Burke and Hare, Rocky and Guido, Domino's Pizza).  
Sweeney's streetwise skills enable our two captives to destroy lab, 
scientist, assistant, and Billy.
"Quick, out this trap door."
"Where does it go?" 
"Who cares?"
They run.   
.tr @'  
.hd 'II-3: Wasn@t it a party?'  
Setting: the drawing room with its tired decorations.   
Winthrop encourages surviving guests to eat, drink, and be merry, for   
tonight...  
They eat birthday cake and play party games (Clue). 
All this time, Max and other ghosts are trying to save the guests from  
various horrible fates, without much success (because ghosts can't be   
seen or heard by living people).
Over the course of this scene, we do the Clue joke, Mort blows up the   
spy transmitter, two moon units are promoted to acolytes, the cultists  
plan a new summoning, Cujo returns, Nanny does something rewarding, 
Carrie and Jaws are still romantically linked, and maybe we do the  
voodoo acupuncture thing on Conan.  
.tp 
The major plot points here are the ghosts and the cultists' summoning.  
The cultists approach Clair with a video script into which they plan to 
insert subliminal incantations that will summon the gross demon they were   
trying for in I-3.  
They explain a little more about what this demon is, and how its presence   
is responsible for the treacherous nature of Jekyll House.  
.hd 'II-4: Whodunnit'   
