


.f...$.0
fass























plot outline:   
	favourite ideas seem to include detectives, ghost  
detectives, inheritances and big old mansions, the  
pier plunge, doubles
	how could we forget the maladept satanist, 
mediums, seances, amnesiacs and layered amnesiacs,  
ghostly apparitions 
	ideas i think should be included for reasons of
parody, comic potential, sophistication, novelty and/or 
completeness include twins and double switches  
gory effects onstage, mysterious haunting effects   
including glow-in-the-dark and billowing gauze  
ghosts, mood music, good scares, ventriloquist, 
(with dummy and voodoo), stuffed aunt gertrude, 
con man, cats, invisible or 'invisible' companions, 
ghost charades, someone who doesn't believe they're dead,   
chalk outlines on the floor 
(someone always wanted to be taller/thinner/bustier and 
alters their outline)   
fire onstage (campfire, candles, bic lighter torchlight 
choral number to tears are not enough!!!!!!!as each person  
sings, they put on their lighter!!!!!!!)
flashlights onstage, sleight of hand DO THIS,   
ghost stories   

classical music/great choral music/fantastic dance numbers/ 
overture --- the music should stop the show, not just by
accident or by virtue of overwhelming talent, but because   
we selected GREAT songs PERFECTLY and wrote tightly-edited  
lyrics that topped it all off WONDERFULLY!!!


no sexism, racism, any -ism that you wouldn't say if you    
knew someone in the room was -- no jokes that'd be hurtful  


gilbert&sullivan, deus ex machina, thankless roles, 
stepping out of the play, forced jokes, stupid university   
jokes for the sake of it, 'if i only had a brain',  
specific cameos, 'in' or 'fass' jokes   
-- start act I in dark with a campfire that slowly comes up 
and/or fades down   
-- ghostly opening song with entire cast crawling in the
the dark from all directions
-- carbon dioxide mist rolling down the steps from the gallery  
-- things that glow in the dark 
-- uv light again   
-- real stage magic with apparitions, gauze-y figures popping   
out of hitherto unnoticed nooks, black box gimmickry and
rod puppets 
-- entire cast in giant spooky minor key number ending the  
first act with bic lighters creating a bank of tiny torches 
in the dark, that all suddenly go out   
-- start act II with the murder of a key witness in a big   
"set" of a junk-filled alley . . . a bag lady wheels a  
squeaky laden bicycle in, spies body, and whistles to   
awaken/bring out the rest of the bag ladies/men who 
witnessed the crime . . . the bag ladies do a production
number and form the backbone of a (comic version of)
street network our detectives tap into  
-- comedy relief with the butlers convention
-- secret companions
-- doubles  
-- narration a la hitchhiker? worked well with the caterpillar, 
but voiceovers don't work as well   
-- do that torch light song to 'we are the world' or 'tears are 
not enough' 
-- lightbulbs hanging from ceiling, strung with tiny xmas tree  
lights, little read lights in hats, visors, ties, lg
glasses, glow in the dark shoelaces, decals, paint, wands,  
flashlight with and without hoods, flashlights held under   
faces, gobos, candles, lighters, lanterns, patio lanterns,  
tin can lanterns, sparklers - use lots of height
-- a single voice in the darkness, then a light, then   
add the lights and voices to get a full chorus -- make  
their spines tingle!!!  
-- frame the stage with lights  

-- put a lookalike inside a frame as a "mirror" 
-- giant blue distorted flat of gothic mansion, silhouetted 
with lightning  
-- blood, gore and werewolf transitions onstage 
-- sleight of hand, misdirection
-- sudden appearances, disappearances, switches and hand-offs   
-- seance, moors, funeral   
-- people who can't stop laughing at a funeral (mtm)
-- dead detectives: open scene with flashbulbs of crime 
photographers at murder scene. all leave for break, then
dead man wakes up, gets up from chalk outline, and starts   
walking around. but all the live people still see him   
on the floor, and he can't believe he's dead.   
"whew, thought i was a goner there for sure"




-- opening song part I: overture, to be written later   
to include all of the songs from the show, of course!   
-- opening song part II: mood music, choral piece sung  
from all over the theatre in the dark to create spooky  
atmosphere as the light of a small campfire comes up
onstage 
-- in the dim light, a small group of teenagers are 
gathered (eerily lit) 'round a fire in a spooky setting 
telling ghost stories that foreshadow the murders in the
script OR parody famous movies AND/OR all the classic   
horror stories. Parody, set the mood and build suspense 
because at the end of the scene, in a climactic but 
startling/unexpected dramatic moment, they are shocked  
by the introduction of . . . The House  
I want big expectations from this scene, but no plot
development -- give me the characters of each group 
member (contrasting and strongly defined), set a
really eerie mood, keep the tempo and dynamics varied   
and have a field day both parodying the horror/suspense/
friday the 13th genres AND building suspense.   
Then, as they seek shelter from rain/run from maniac/   
go on a dare, they are dramatically confronted by   
The House (a painted flat I imagine, back lit etc.) 
and maybe even . . . The Scarey Caretaker/Butler.   
Keep it elegant, simple, and very much the texture  
mood and tempo of good horror/thriller/scarey stuff.
-- opening song part III: the UPBEAT but still  
mysterious/chilling crowdpleaser gives snappy contrast  
to the lowkey suspense of the scene and finishes off
this intro snappily!


applause


-- small-set scene in a lawyer's office: The Con
lawyer established in office, new client enters 
and lawyer pleasantly/charmingly/humourously
gets them to leave an exorbitant amount of $$   
client leaves happily, "lawyer" climbs into 
coveralls and continues cleaning the room as
the real lawyer enters (status change, nice 
revelation to the audience that a clever and
admirable fraud has taken place)    
stop earlier rather than later -- don't talk
on forever  


applause and laughter   


-- our group of teenagers are discovered at 
the door of The House where they meet The   
Caretaker. House is revealed to be a classic
dusty be-webbed spooky place with mysterious
rustlings and goings-on. Caretaker is revealed  
to be frightening nut case with a bizarre   
sense of humour. Caretaker dismisses    
strange noises UNCONVINCINGLY as "cats";
the point is not laboured and is clearly
meant as a euphemism/shallow reassurance.   
we never see any cats at all.   
The teenagers want/need to stay the night,  
caretaker says that Madam will have to  
decide. 
Big ending to scene: Madam is dead. 
Probably says this as he turns around the   
swivel chair in which Madam sits.   gle!Try not to give away "the trouble with M

Try not to give away "the trouble with Madam"   
and instead try to portray her, through 
the caretaker, in such a way that the   
audience is expecting a classic 
parody of a nasty/bizarre mystery character.
Sort of the "watch out for her" character,  
until we know better.   


gasps and applause  


-- back to the lawyer's office where, while 
our effectively invisible con man keeps cleaning
and eavesdropping, the lawyer finds out that
Harriet Milton is dead by way of a singing  
telegram. con man does clever things with   
leading questions to get the lawyer to reveal   
that Harriet left zords of money, to be split   
evenly amongst all of the relatives who can 
spend a night in the house. Use as a punch  
line (and CLEARLY not an important one) that
if no one stays, the money all goes to the cats.
Maybe we could establish that the con man hates 
cats. ("snakes. why did it have to be snakes?") 


applause


-- at the house, Caretaker makes dead jokes 
while giving teenagers a moody history of the   
house and settling them in for the evening  
(since Madam doesn't seem to object).   
each suite named after people who died there,   ND/Oor HOW they 

or HOW they died (nice jokes there when someone 
can't figure out how: "the porridge room -- 
poisoned by it?" "no, drowned in it."), 
dust, skeletons in closets, things that almost  
drop on people and lots of near misses. 
doorbell announces the first of 
many relatives summoned by the lawyer to
meet the conditions of the will 
(the room the teenagers are given for   
the night has no name yet, of course)   
this is all done in our corridor of doors set,  
and the teenagers withdraw warily into their
room.   


next group of people show up and go warily into their   
room - four rooms in total? 
	ventriloquist and dummy
	medium 
    teenagers   
    con man 


seems to me that this is a great place for a song   
about the house, expectations and play with the 
doors (hellhouse, to 'one night in bangkok')
(this set could be accomplished by building flats   
diagonally back from the proscenium, since it's not 
important to see the doors well, or flat across the 
proscenium) 
either the caretaker or the con man does the rap


applause


-- the Haunting.
our people meet in the drawing room with Madam's body   stabintroduce themselves to one anot

introduce themselves to one another 
(re-iterate the terms of the will, how no one   
can leave, but none of them REALLY want the 
money that badly. use action, despite the   
fact that here is where we establish all of 
their desperate motives -- maybe revealing  
conversation over the ouiji board)  
and for stupid reasons start playing with an Ouiji board
and end up having a seance  
let's use real magic here to conjure things up, have
things fly through the air, knock on stuff, 
and culminate with a GIANT apparition of Madam's
face appearing (upstage of the proscenium through   
black box) with moving eyes and lips, speaking to   
the crowd!  
