


...J....
fass























.so expl/../macr.r  
.tl 
The FASS Frosh Quizzie  
.bl 
.tp 
Well folks, you're going to have to get used to writing quizzies.   
This university loves to pester you with piddling little tests that 
count half a per cent towards your final mark if you do well, but count 
as thirty black marks against you if you flub them. 
These annoyances are commonly known as quizzies.
(Said one young lass to her professor, "If that was one of your 
quizzies, I'd hate to see one of your testies.")
.tp 
At any rate, in the interests of preparing you for the many, many   
quizzies you'll be writing in the next three, four, five, or twelve years,  
the FASS Theatre Company hereby offers you a SURPRISE quizzie that you  
must pass in order to be admitted through the front gates of the university.
Names and mug shots of those who flunk will be given to all campus  
security guards along with orders to shoot to kill. 
.tp 
Good luck!  
.hd Questions   
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (1) 
What four-letter word begins with "F" and refers to a way to enjoy  
yourself with other persons?
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (2) 
What enjoyable but unnatural act is said to cause insanity, blindness,  
and hairy palms?
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (3) 
Is it possible to expose yourself to hundreds of people in the dead 
of winter without getting frostbite?
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (4) 
What's the difference between a make-out artist and a make-up artist?   
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (5) 
Where's the best place on campus to go for a good time (wink, wink, 
nudge, nudge)?  
.bl 
.tp 
Well, that's the test.  
Now put down your pencils, pass your test to the person behind you  
(last person in the row to the person in front),
and let's get ready to mark.
Here are the answers.   
.hd Answers 
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (1) 
The word is FASS.   
FASS stands for Faculty, Administration, Staff, and Students, the people
who get together every year to put on the funniest show on campus.  
You can enjoy yourself watching it this February, but you can enjoy 
yourself even more by coming out and being part of the madness. 
The organizational meeting is Tuesday, September 22.
Watch for our posters to tell you where it's going to be.   
By the way, when we say "meetings", we almost always mean "parties".
We'll come back to those later. 
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (2) 
The unnatural but enjoyable act is writing for FASS.
You see, before the show goes on next term, we have to pull together a  
script filled with jokes, puns, and songs.  
If you've never written before, don't worry; almost everybody else is   
in the same boat.   
Even if you aren't interested in putting pen to paper, watch for our
posters and come out to our writers' brainstorming sessions, just as
an ideas person.
Don't worry about the side effects of becoming a FASS writer -- the 
insanity is fun, and the blindness and hairy palms only begin to develop
after a few years' overexposure.
As compensation for these threats to your mind, all writers will be 
able to attend FASS's parties (we'll come back to those later). 
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (3) 
Yes, it is possible if you're getting exposure by being onstage with FASS.  
Acting experience is no prerequisite for being part of FASS's cast. 
What you need is the enthusiasm to devote your spare time to rehearsing 
and learning lines. 
In return for your devotion, you get to come to all of FASS's parties   
(we'll come back to those later).   
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (4) 
We don't know what a make-out artist is (well, maybe we do, but we  
aren't saying), but a make-up artist is just one of the people who  
works backstage each year for FASS. 
We need people to work on make-up, costumes, sound, lighting, props,
carpentry, publicity and advertising, and lots of other stuff.  
We also need people to organize FASS parties (we'll come back to those later).  
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (5) 
Where's the best place on campus to go for a good time? 
By now, you should have guessed that good times are to be had for all   
at our FASS PARTIES!
In the fall, there may be such things as a coffee house, a hay ride,
roller skating, and what not.   
In the winter, FASS will have lots of real live parties paid for in whole   
or in part by the proceeds from the show itself.
.bl 
.tp 
The point is that FASS is not just an organization that's dedicated to  
putting on a funny show; it's a group of folks who are interested in
having fun and getting to meet other people on campus.  
If you're interested in the same things (and who isn't?),   
look for the FASS posters and come out to our organizational meeting (party).   
It could be one of the best moves you make at university.   
