


...J...A
fass























GENERALISSIMO:  
Hi.  I'm Generalissimo xxxxx yyyy, and I'm the benevolant dictator of   
SCLAC.  I bet you've never seen the dictator of a banana republic come  
on TV to advertise one. You see, I wanted to be the first, because I
think it's perfectly natural.  Your parents may have been the first to  
tell you about vactions, but you can be the first to tell them how  
wonderful it would be to have yours in SCLAC.  You can swim in it, play 
in it, or just relax.  Whatever your schedule, SCLAC fits right in. 
And best of all, SCLAC was designed by a noted planetary geologist, so  
you know you can trust it.  Since we're close to home, we give you all  
the comfort of a sun-belt vaction with all the convenience of a short   
flight. 
Best of all, you can count on my army for total protection while you're 
there.  
SCLAC.  The one people have counted on for generations. 
----------------------  
Idea # 2
---------------------   
For years, now, Juan and the boys have knocked off a few revolutionaries,   
killed a few trees, and settled back on the yards and yards of beautiful
white beach........>This isn't going anywhere....   
---------------------   
Hard-Sell   
---------------------   
(K-Tel style)   
.ch an  
Americans:  How many times has this happened to you?
.ad 
(TWO TOURISTS ON STAGE) 
.ch ow  
Darn!  My traveller's cheques have been stolen and the beach is covered 
in muck.
.ch ll  
Why didn't you take us to a country where the natives were more docile. 
.ch an  
Well don't let it happen again, because now there's SCLAC!  That's right,   
SCLAC.  A wonderful central-american republic with all you could ever   
ask for in a place to spend your vaction money.  But wait!  Why visit   
any country when you could have all THIS!   
.ld 
(SPOT ON SLEEPING OR OTHERWISE ZONKED PEASANTS) 
.ex 
That's right, we have the most docile citizens to be found anywhere.
... 


No theft or crime, everybody stays in line. 
And who could forget...  Yards and Yards of beautiful white beach!  
.sd 
(SOUND OF SURF) 
.ex 
Now, how much would you pay for a vacation in a fine, trouble-free spot 
like this?  Don't answer now, because with each vaction we include this 
fabulous Ginsu knife.  It dices, it slices, and it serves as a handy
defence weapon should you stray from our borders.  Plus it comes with   
this fabulous handle that is warranted never to break as long as it's intact!   
Can you get that anywhere else. 
This trip can be yours.  With tax and licence it sells for $599 per person. 
First Class flight, $899.   The trip is available on a two record set for   
just $7.99, tape or cassette, $8.99 
Don't wait to order, space is limited.  
.ch ge  
To order, call toll-free 1-800-555-1212 and ask for Judy.  Offer not available  
in Canada.  
A note on Tina Treason. 
My Dad tells me it is likely that Mattel is going ahead with the
Suzy Secret doll, but not in time for FASS. 
They'll think FASS was prophetic.   
I am at my office, which is where my Unix is not too, by the way.   
