


...J...n
fass

























Commercial Idea - National Expirer  


A man comes on stage with a large newspaper with a bright, full colour  
front page. On the cover is a coffin and a flashy title that says,  
"Is there Death after Life?". He holds newspaper to the audience and uses   
a hard sell approach in presenting the following lines. 


Announcer: Buy this weeks issue and discover the real facts about dead  
           people that you admire. In this weeks Issue of the National  
           Expirer, find out why John Belushi wasn't stuffed! Learn new 
           and amazing facts about home enbombings. Read about the real 
           story behind the best selling book, "I was a Test-Tube Corpse!". 
           Order a five year subscription now, to this dynamic weekly, and  
           recieve your free gift of an autographed picture of Elvis Presley
           in his casket.   
           You say, How can we afford to give all this to you for only the  
           cost of twelve dollars per issue? But wait, There's More!
          This Week begins a five part expose on the question, "Did Howard  
          Hughes Really Take It With Him?". 
          Learn Orson Wells new diet plan, guarenteed to make you gain 50   
          pounds and a heart condition in only three weeks! Find out the
          answer to the thought prevoking question, is Elvis really dead
          or is he just on vacation?
          To get all this, just order a subsciption buy phoning this toll   
          free number: 1-800-555-1234, or pick it up a your local funeral   
          parlor.   
          Read the National Expirer, the newspaper for expirering ... Argh! 


At this point the Announcer drops the paper and throws his hands to his head
and falls over dead. Some Techies come out on stage and clear the "mess".   


End Of Commercial   


*** Editor's note: Central Latin American Country is linked with where  
    Hitler, Bruce Lee, etc. are all supposed to be. 


