


...F..d.
bjeroehl























.he "FASSen Your Seat Belts..." 
.ph 
Hello, and welcome to another FASSinating update from your  
roving (or should I say raving?) reporter.  
.ph 
As many of you may already be aware, FASS (that weird and wonderful theatre troup)  
is currently planning for its upcoming production.  
The theme this year is cloak and dagger, spies and spying.  
In keeping with the theme, the plot is being kept under-cover,  
a closely-guarded secret.  (Not really, but it sure sounds neat, doesn't it?)   
.ph 
Fass has had a fairly illustrious 18-year history of comedy, singing, dancing,  
and general good times.  In recent years, its productions have  
ranged from hi-jinks on the high seas to mad scientists and alien   
cats from outer space, and have had titles to match.
Who can forget `The St. Valentine's Day Fassacre', `Days of Future Fass',   
or `Ships That Fass in the Night'?  
.ph 
What really surprises this reporter is that so many people still ask the
innocent question, `What is Fass?'  
.ph 
The simple answer is that Fass is Fun.  Fun for the actors, the singers, and dancers;   

fun for the tech crew and production people (you should see some
of the parties those techies have!); and most importantly, fun  
for the audiences.  
.ph 
The show will be put on the first week in February, and tickets are 
expected to go on sale later this term (watch for posters). 
Popular opinion has it that the Friday night late show is the best, 
though in recent years the Friday early show has gained a substantial following 
(or show I say foolowing?). 
In any case, all five shows are worth seeing, and if previous years 
are any indication the tickets are expected to go fasst.
.ph 
One of the most difficult tasks each year is choosing a title for   
the show, and this year is no exception.  That's where you come in. 
Yes, you.   
.ph 
You see, this year Fass is running a sort of mini-contest, to help  
get a title for the show.  Nothing fancy, you understand, just  
a simple little `Name the Fass' competition.  The rules are simple. 
Just put your suggested title, along with your name, phone number, and  
userid (if any) on a small slip of paper and leave it in any of the 
following three places : the official Fass Office (South Campus 
Hall room 234-B), the SciSoc office (ESC lobby), or the MathSoc 
office (and if you don't know where THAT is, what are you doing 
reading this paper?).   
.ph 
Better still, if you have a Honeywell userid just mail your 
suggestion to userid FASS.  In any case, the winner will be 
chosen by this year's producer (with a little help from the various 
writers) and all results are final. 
.ph 
Prizes?  Did I hear someone ask about prizes?  Well, as a matter of fact, there are a few.  
The winner will not only receive a free Fass t-shirt and two free   
tickets to the upcoming production of Fass, but will also be given an honourable mention
in this year's programme.   
Not bad for just picking a name, eh?
.ph 
If you're totally blank as to what name to choose, just 
ask your friends for suggestions.  (Don't tell them about the   
contest though -- we'll just let that be our little secret).
The title should have something to do with this year's theme
(if you've forgotten already, go back to the start of this column   
and try again), and should preferably have some clever play on  
words (why break tradition?).  If the title happens to have 
the word `FASS' in it, so much the better (though this is not   
absolutely necessary).  For inspiration, look at the titles of  
previous FASSes (you've forgotten those, too?  Gosh, you have   
a short retention span.  Go back a few paragraphs and you'll
see some examples). 
.ph 
Simple, right?  Deadline is fairly flexible, but to give you
some sort of guideline we'll say two weeks from the publication 
date of this issue of mathnews.  If more than one person submits
the title that wins, the one we receive first will get the prizes.  
(Remember to put time and date on written submissions!).
.ph 
Well, that's all for this week.  This is your still-roving (and 
still-raving) reporter signing off. 
(I've gotta go now, my shoe is ringing).
.sg "Bernie Roehl"  
