


..].....























.so sdg/etc/../manmac.t 
.ce 2   
.bf 2   
FASS
Writers' Workshop   
.qc "   
.he "FASS Writers' Workshop"- % -"October, 1985"
.qc '   
.s1 Schedule
.oc 'Session 1:' 4  
Discussion of gathering, writing, editing, polishing.   
An introduction to writing as part of a group.  
People will be asked to write a small scene in the next two weeks.  
.oc 'Session 2:' 4  
Discussion of written scenes.   
Individual practice editing/improving someone else's scene. 
.oc 'Session 3:' 4  
Group editing one scene.
.bl 
Sometime after Session~3, we'll get together to read the scenes that
come out of the workshop.   
The scene we group-edit may be performed at some FASS function (e.g. a  
party in January).  
.bt 
I would like people to get their scenes to me   
.ul 
before  
the second session so I have a chance to look them over and comment on them.
You can deliver them to Linda Carson in the Fed Office or to Jim Gardner
in the rear office of MC~3047.  
.bt 
My campus phone extension is 6331 and my home number is 888-6913.   

There's an answering machine at home, so you can always leave a message.
.s1 Why~A~Workshop? 
During the actual FASS writing period, there isn't usually much time for
people to learn how to write.   
Everyone's time and effort goes into producing a good script instead of 
producing better writers.   
Maybe this isn't the way it should be in the best of all possible worlds,   
but time is usually so short that we can't afford to do anything else.  
.bt 
This situation has led to a couple of problems. 
First of all, we have trouble getting new writers.  
People may come to Brainstorming Sessions because there's no pressure,  
but when the time comes to put pen to paper, they're intimidated.   
They may have never done anything like this before. 
They may not know where to begin, so they chicken out...which is perfectly  
natural.
.bt 
Second, some of our writers are frustrated because they don't have any idea 
how to improve. 
This is especially true when they bring in a scene and see most of it end up
on the editing room floor.  
In the interests of getting the best script possible, there's no question   
that weak bits have to go.  
However, we haven't done a particularly good job of teaching people how to  
avoid those weak bits in future, so year after year, writers see their  
scenes hacked up.   
.bt 
Third, when a lot of editing is needed, it takes a lot of time. 
People have to work on the script during the Christmas holidays, and in the 
first week of January, even while auditions are taking place.   
This makes life difficult for the Director (as the script changes under his 
or her feet), the Tech Director (who has the same problem), and the 
Producer (who would love to have the script in June so the posters could
.ul 
really  
be ready in time).  
.bt 
This workshop is an attempt to solve these problems.
It gives all writers, old and new, a chance to work on scenes without the   
time or performance pressure that's part of the real script-writing process.
I also hope that it will help writers to recognize weak bits in their   
writing and to correct those weaknesses 
.ul 
before  
handing in the script.  
.bt 
If we get better writers, we get better scene scripts.  
If we get better scene scripts, less editing is necessary.  
And if less editing is necessary, the script won't be late and writers  

will actually see their stuff make it onto the stage.   
.bt 
I can't guarantee brilliance -- there are never any insurance policies. 
However, I  
.ul 
can 
point out a number of things that usually get in the way of 
good writing.   
If you avoid the pitfalls, then it should be a lot easier to come up with   
something you can be proud of.  
.bt 
Throughout the workshop, I will likely take a lot of examples from the  
FASS '85 script.
Some of these will be good examples, and some of them will be bad.  
I want to make it clear that I'm not trying to pick on this year's writers  
or the script when I point to things I consider weaknesses. 
Any other FASS script (and even a lot of professionally-written scripts) would  
contain the same kinds of problems. 
It's just that the people in the workshop are familiar with this year's script  
and with the way the audience reacted to various bits, so it's easier to
point out assorted pluses and minuses.  
.bt 
One last thing: any time someone tells you a "rule" of good writing, you
can always find some wonderful piece of writing that breaks the rule.   
With the right circumstances, you can get away with practically anything.   ays On the o

On the other hand, you should always look before you leap.  
Recognize that you are breaking a "rule" and be certain that breaking the   
rule gives you a better scene than following the rule.  
The most important thing is to keep your eyes open and ask yourself a lot   
of embarrassing questions.  
.s1 Myths   
Serious stuff first: I don't know how much of this stuff I'll say in
the workshop, but it should be down on paper somewhere. 
There are a number of myths about the FASS writing process. 
If we get them out in the open now, we can ignore them and get on with the  
real business of writing.   
.s2 What~FASS~Has~To~Be 
FASS can be practically anything the writers want it to be. 
It can have a tight plot, a loose plot, or no plot at all.  
It can be episodic or one long story.   
It can have one act, two acts, three acts, or whatever. 
It can have non-funny scenes in it. 
It can have original music. 
It can be strongly centred around the university or have no connection at all.  
It can have biting political satire or childish puns.   
.bt 
No one should think FASS
.ul 
has 
to be something or  
.ul 
has 
to do some particular schtick year after year.  
Accordingly, my definition of what FASS should be is going to be vague: 
.ul 
FASS is a musical comedy with a large cast. 
From that point on, it's up to the people writing the show to decide what   
goes in the script. 
.s2 How~FASS~Should~Be~Written  
There are many ways to write FASS.  
The current system was started in 1978, and it has produced a number of 
good scripts.   
However, different approaches may produce equally good scripts. 
No one should assume that there is a divinely inspired process that FASS
must follow, or that I am saying that FASS always has to do one thing or
another.
.bt 
Later on, I will describe how FASS has been written for the past few years, 
just to give new people a general idea of how this all comes together, but  
a new Head Scriptwriter or set of writers may change things.
.s2 Slap-Dash~FASS  
It's important to me that people understand that FASS's hype is just hype.  
FASS likes to give the impression that we're a bunch no-talent slobs who are
only interested in partying, that we steal all our jokes, that we screw up  
our lines, that we throw together props, etc., etc. 
.bt 
.ul 
However,
you know and I know that's not true.
We work hard, we put in long hours, we maintain good discipline.
Our techies are among the best on campus -- they are called on by many other
shows put on at the university, because they know what they're doing.   
Our actors are untrained but almost never flub a line.  
Our writers put together a 2~1/2 hour show that entertains more people than 
any other presentation in campus theatres.  
.bt 
We like to project the image that FASS is a slap-dash thing...which is fine,
as long as we keep in mind that it's just an image. 
We aren't Great Art and we don't want to be Great Art; but we don't want to 
be shoddy goods either. 
This means that we have to  
.ul 
care
about what we're doing. 
Even when we're looking at a cheap pun, we have to decide if it's funny 
enough to go in FASS, and if it is, we have to make sure that the joke is   
delivered to its best advantage.
.bt 
Never   
.ul 
ever
say, "It's only FASS."  
We can be as lowbrow as we want, but we should never be sloppy. 
.s2 FASS~Audiences~Are~Scum 
In the same way that we pretend we're second rate, we sometimes pretend that
our audiences are morons.   mstaOur audiences may be drunk, they may be rowdy, and they may be b

Our audiences may be drunk, they may be rowdy, and they may be big fans of  
low humour, but they aren't stupid. 
This is university, after all -- the majority of them have IQ's 
in the top 5% of the population (frightening though it may be). 
.bt 
We can't fill the script with junk because we think the audience demands it.
If we don't find it funny, they won't either.   
In other words, we can't just say the word "Engineer" and expect everyone   
to laugh.   
We have to say something witty or new; or we have to take the audience by   
surprise; or we have to say something so true or appropriate to the scene   
that people laugh from delight. 
.bt 
Putting it another way, we have to tell jokes that  
.ul 
we  
like.   
The jokes don't have to be new or brilliant -- they don't have to be
traditional "jokes" at all (Bill Cosby almost never tells "jokes", but  
he's still enormously funny) -- but we can't be cynical and force crap  
on the audience because we think they don't know better.
.s1 The~Four~Stages 
Enough seriousness -- on with the show! 
There are four steps in writing a scene.
Everybody goes through these four stages.   artiSome people may spend more time on one stage tha

Some people may spend more time on one stage than another, but you have to  
touch base on each one, even if you only do so briefly. 
.bt 
We'll start by describing the four stages very briefly, and come back to
fuller descriptions later on.   
The four stages are:
.oc Gathering   
This is a planning stage before you start writing.  
You get ideas of where the scene is going to go, get some ideas about   
your characters and how you'll present them, maybe jot down some nice   
lines, and so on.   
Some people do this in their heads, but later on I'll give reasons why  
I think writing things down will get you farther.   
.oc Writing 
This is the process of writing the first draft of the scene.
Later drafts will come, but getting the whole thing out in the open is a
big first step. 
.oc Editing 
The first editing stage is for major changes: locating bits that don't  
work, adding material where things need to be expanded, and so on.  
.oc Polishing   
This is the second editing stage: cleaning up little things here and there. 
.bl 
Oddly enough, these are precisely the stages that the   
.ul 
group   
of FASS writers usually go through to produce a script. 
(Remember, the process isn't carved in stone.)  
They begin by brainstorming: collecting ideas on the chosen theme, seeing   
what directions are possible, fleshing out a plot, coming up with major 
characters, and so on.  
.bt 
During the brainstorming process, the show will be broken up into scenes.   
When the time for actual writing comes, each scene will be handed over to   
a writer (or a team of writers).
The writers then go home and write the scenes (that 
sounds simple, doesn't it?).
.bt 
The writers may or may not consult with the Chief Scriptwriter or with  
other writers while the scenes are being written.   
Sooner or later, however, the writers bring in their scenes and editing 
begins. 
Some sort of editing is always necessary, regardless of the quality of  
the scenes -- for example, if writer A has given character X some sort  
of verbal peculiarity and it works out very nicely, the character will  
have to be given the same peculiarity throughout the script.
Unfortunately, the editing sessions often have to deal with weaknesses as   
well as inconsistencies, but if this workshop works out, the problem
should arise less frequently.   
.bt 
The polishing stage happens during rehearsals.  
I'm not talking about significant changes here, although those sometimes
happen too; but in the normal course of rehearsal, the Director will
add bits of stage business, the actors may occasionally reword lines that   
their tongues have trouble with, and the techies will customarily add their 
own touches to sets and props.  
Once in a long while, someone will come up with a brilliant addition to 
the script that both Director and Chief Scriptwriter approve; or the Director   
may choose to cut a song or bit of dialogue that doesn't work out.  
Another common situation is that the Director has to cast a male in a   
female part or vice versa, making tiny changes necessary.   
.s2 Separating~the~Four~Stages  
I believe it is psychologically important for writers to separate the four  
stages. 
I'll be harping about this over and over again in just a few paragraphs,
when we get down to talking about the stages individually.  
I can spout a lot of psychological gobbledy-gook about left brain vs. right 
brain, but I won't bore you.
Instead, I'll just boil things down to a simple metaphor.   r stYour brain has an accelerator and it has a brake pedal; push

Your brain has an accelerator and it has a brake pedal; pushing the one gets
you places and pushing the other keeps you out of trouble.  
Trying to push them both at the same time is counter-productive.
.bt 
The glory of writing as an art is that you never have to show it to anyone  
until it's ready.   
Who cares if you write three pages and two of them are garbage? 
.ul 
No one has to see the garbage.  
You never need to show people the first thing that came out of your pen or  
typewriter. 
You can clean it up -- that's what the editing stages are for.  
.bt 
However, you have to get something down on paper before you can improve it. 
That's why it's so important to avoid criticizing or censoring yourself 
when you first begin writing your scene.
Keep telling yourself that you'll go back   
.ul 
later   
and fix things up if necessary. 
Don't worry about falling flat on your face -- you have the editing stage   
later on to act as a parachute. 
.bt 
When you're gathering, you aren't writing.  
You're just putting down ideas. 
That's easy enough. 
If they turn out to be dumb ideas, you don't have to use them...or you can  

..].....



put a bit of thought into them and make them funny dumb ideas.  
You can do whatever you want when you're gathering. 
Later you can worry about making sense of it all.   
.bt 
When you're writing, you aren't editing.
You don't have to get the grammar right the first time. 
You don't have to make every line funny.
You don't have to worry about every little detail.  
All you have to do is   
.ul 
get the words down --   
perfection comes later. 
.bt 
When you're editing, you aren't bothered by creating.   
You have something to work with: the first draft that was created in the
writing stage.  
Instead of staring at blank pieces of paper, you have something in your 
hands.  
You're free to throw stuff away if it's bad.
You're also free to put big exclamation marks in the margin if something's  
good.   
With a first draft as foundation, building something impressive is much easier. 
.bt 
When you're polishing, you have everything licked.  
All that remains is touching things up here and there.  
You've done the hard work...except that none of the work was hard because   
you didn't try to do all four stages at once.   
.bt 
People who have done some Computer Programming probably know about the  
concept of modularization.  
This is an example of the process.  
If you break your work down into simple steps, you never have to do anything
difficult.  
.bt 
I really recommend that you consciously split your writing process into these   
four stages: "Today I am gathering" or "Now I will begin editing".  
Put a night's sleep between each stage if possible. 
Do anything you can to avoid interference between stages.   
This is particularly important when you are creating -- nothing puts you on 
the skids faster than slamming on the brakes when you were charging forward 
at full acceleration.   
.s2 Gathering   
Gathering is collecting ideas and material. 
It's surrounding yourself with tools before you actually set to work.   
.bt 
When you are gathering things, you should write down as much as possible.   
The first reason for this is that you don't want to lose any good material. 
The second reason is one of my cardinal rules of writing.   
.to 0   
.bf 3   
.ce 3   
IT ISN'T REAL   
UNTIL YOU CAN SEE   
THAT IT'S THERE 
.tn 
.tp 
When I turn ideas over in my head, I tend to find one vague idea

When I turn ideas over in my head, I tend to find one vague idea and let that   
idea go round and round in circles. 
Unless I'm lucky,   
.ul 
nothing grows out of the idea.  
.bt 
If you describe an idea on paper, it's definite.
Often, you see difficulties with the idea that weren't clear in your head.  
Just as often, you see ways for the idea to grow that you never noticed 
before. 
As you write out the idea, little "what ifs" and "after thats" come to mind.
Things grow.
.bt 
If things grow, pat yourself on the back for being creative.
You may well be on the way to something really good.
If things don't grow, you still have one idea on paper. 
Furthermore, the idea is now out of your head and you have space for new
ideas, instead of being hung up on the old stuff.   
.bt 
In the Gathering stage, you have to get a rough idea of what your scene 
is going to be like.
This involves at least four factors:
.to 
Plot or Story   
Characters  
Setting 
Stage Business  
.tn 
You can keep all these factors fairly simple, or you can be as tricky as you
want -- both ways can work. 
The factors are also inter-dependent: the Plot may require a certain Setting,   ake circumst

circumstances of a Setting may influence the Plot, and so on.   
.bt 
What you're looking for in the Gathering stage are  
.ul 
seeds.  
These are ideas that excite you, that make you want to write the actual scene.  
For example, you may come up with a lovely character and want to put a  
scene around him.   
I think the Keeners from this year's FASS are an example of this.   
What plot events had to happen in 2-4?  
I haven't a clue.   
There was practically no plot advancement.  
However, the Keeners were such a good idea that they propelled the whole
scene.  
.bt 
Setting and Stage Business are equally capable of propelling scenes, and Plot   
of course is the most common source of propulsion.  
I'll likely give examples of this in the workshop.  
.bt 
In all this, you're looking for at least one thing to make you pleased  
to write the scene, something that will make you giggle or smile.   
If it's a really good idea, you'll likely want to tell someone about it,
which leads us to our next rule of writing. 
.to 0   
.ce 2   
.bf 2   
DON'T SHOOT YOUR MOUTH OFF  
UNTIL THE INK IS DRY
.tn 
Writers are performers who are lucky enough and unlucky enough to perform   

second hand.
We're lucky because we don't perform "live": we can edit like crazy to  
make better material.   
We're unlucky because the applause comes a long time after the fact.
There's no immediate feedback for good stuff.   
.bt 
There's a great temptation to look for more immediate feedback by telling   
people about our ideas in the Gathering stage.  
.ul 
Resist the temptation!  
There are two reasons for this: 
.hb 3 8 (a) 
An idea in the Gathering stage has not been written, edited, and polished.  
If you tell someone about it at this stage, you aren't going to be delivering   
the idea with maximum effect because you haven't done the work. 
Result: you'll get polite "Oh, that's nice," and you'll be crushed. 
You're excited because you can feel the idea's potential, but other people  
aren't inside your head.
They can't see the idea, so it isn't real yet.  
(Remember the first rule of writing.)   
.hb 3 8 (b) 
Once you have talked about the idea, you've "performed" it, for better  
or worse.   
Your desire to get the idea out into the open will go down. 
If you can resist talking about the idea, your desire to perform will   s ovstay high and give you some drive to get the

stay high and give you some drive to get the actual scene written.  
That drive is very useful.  
Robert Frost once said, "Writing is the tap in the upstairs bathroom and
talking is the fire hydrant on the front lawn.  
If you turn on the hydrant, there won't be any pressure when you want to
turn on the tap."   
.bl 
.s3 Plotting
If you are writing a FASS scene, the basics of the plot have probably been  
decided already in the group brainstorming sessions.
You'll have an idea of the major events that have to happen in your scene.  
Usually, however, you'll need a clearer picture before you start writing.   
.bt 
Some people say that a plot synopsis stifles creativity when you finally get
to the writing stage, and it may be true for all I know.
However, you'll find your writing runs into fewer dead ends if you get a
rough sketch of the order in which certain events have to happen.   
This also lets you get to know the scene better.
.bt 
All major plot elements should be presented in an active way.   
This is a specific example of another golden rule.  
.to 0   
.ce 3   
.bf 3   
SHOW,   
DON'T   
TELL!   
.tn 
Don't just talk about something happening offstage -- show it happening 
onstage, if it is humanly possible. 
Furthermore, show it in a vivid way.
.bt 
For an example, we'll go to a true classic: Romeo and Juliet.   
The play opens with a prologue that explains how the Capulets and Montagues 
are in the midst of a feud. 
However, Shakespeare is too smart to be satisfied with saying this. 
In the first scene, a few Capulets and Montagues start insulting each other,
things get heated, and eventually they fight a bit before broken up by the  
City Guard. 
The characters involved in this are mostly bit parts and the fight has little   
to do with the story of the play.   
The scene is primarily there to 
.ul 
show
the audience that the two families really are at each others' throats.  
.bt 
If you have some plot point you're going to have to make, use the Gathering 
stage to design an  
.ul 
active  
way to make the point.  
For example, if a character X is supposed to steal a microfilm, show
the theft; don't just have X enter a secret hide-out say, "I stole it." 
If you can't show the theft for some reason, do something else active.  
Have X make a big show of hiding the micro-film somewhere; or reading it
in a micro-film reader; or taunting a prisoner with it; or something.   
.bt 
Action doesn't have to be running around the stage. 
For example, think of the love scene between Bo Evil and Captain University.
Instead of saying a lot of "I love you," they talked about their future and 
sang a song.
Songs are excellent ways of reinforcing a mood, especially if the songs are 
good ones (we'll talk about songs later).   
.s3 Characters  
In the Gathering stage, you also have to figure out something about your
characters. 
This can be vague to begin with, but in this stage or the next, you'll  
have to come up with something definite.
.bt 
Concrete characteristics are far more useful than abstracts.
If you tell yourself that a character is "evil", you don't have much of an  
idea of what to do with that person when he or she comes on stage.  
If you choose something more specific like "greedy" or "sadistic", you've   
got a better handle on behaviour.   
.bt 
As with plot points, character points should be made actively.  
Think of the first appearance of the Keeners: you see them scrambling for   ou sseats in the front r

seats in the front row. 
That's something delightful and immediate.  
It got big laughs.  
Compare that with the more talky bit where Rod's Keener discussed the   
program to determine where to position his calculator on his belt.  
The talky bit was more of a "joke", but it was less effective than the  
fight over the seats.   
.bt 
In fact, coming up with character activities will help you more than coming 
up with adjectives to describe your characters. 
If you say that a character is "slimy", it only helps a little when it comes
to the Writing Stage.   
On the other hand, if you decide that the character spends the entire scene 
propositioning every female that comes on stage, you have more to work with.
When you know the sort of actions that a character will perform, you have   
a good idea of his character.   
.bt 
Don't forget that FASS has to allow for a big cast. 
We've had as many as 90 people some years, about 60 this year.  
In the Gathering Stage, see what you can do to come up with interesting parts   
for a number of people. 
.s3 Setting 
When you say "setting", the first thing you think of is the physical location   
of a scene. 
However, there's more to it than that.  
In our high school, we described setting with TPC: Time, Place, and 
Circumstance.   
Time can mean the time of day of the action, or the season of the year, 
or the period of history.   
Place can be a type of room or building, a geographical location, a climate,
or a set of surroundings.   
Circumstance is any further condition on top of time and place: something   
that is happening at the same time as the major action; the weather; extra  
people who are part of the setting; and many other things.  
.bt 
You can keep things as simple as you want.  
Nevertheless, you should remember that in the Gathering Stage, you are  
looking for seeds that will make you happy to write the scene.  
Setting can be the source for seeds if you give it some thought.
.bt 
Time: many scenes are set at some indeterminate hour.   
This is fine if you have other things to write about, but if you're looking 
for a seed, look at the time.   
Suppose a meeting is held at midnight.  
Does that catch your attention? 
Suppose it's winter and snowing outside -- that gives you something solid   
to play with.   g el(As I wrote that last sentence, I thought about putting a sc

(As I wrote that last sentence, I thought about putting a scene in winter,  
with the heating out.   
They've built entire episodes of MASH and WKRP around something that simple.)   
.bt 
Place: again, writers are often wishy-washy about places.   
They don't go out of their way to find interesting locales. 
(I want to stress, if you've found a good seed in some other area, fine.
If you haven't, look around for a point of interest.)   
I once had a play I wanted to write but couldn't get it off the ground. 
In a Gathering session, it suddenly came to me to place the action in the   
workroom of a comic book company, and the full-length play wrote itself in  
four days.  
.bt 
If you have nothing better to do, try a non-standard locale.
Consider putting the scene in a kitchen instead of an anonymous living room.
Put the scene outside in a rain storm.  
It's true that your options are often limited by the scene outline that 
is given to you in the brainstorming session, but within these limits, you  
can often find something to spark you into action.  
.bt 
Circumstance: this is the most vague and the most fertile.  
To take an example we've already talked about, having the heating out in a  

building is a circumstance...and yet it's something that can add guts to a  
scene.  
Having it raining outside is a circumstance...but it can give you the chance
to do thunder and lightning effects at appropriate times, something that works  
all the time in horror movies.  
.bt 
Circumstance can be very subtle.
A lovely scene I remember from WKRP had Jennifer in a heart-to-heart talk   
with an old boyfriend in the hall outside her apartment.
Pretty straightforward stuff; but the writer added a tiny circumstance, 
a man in the hall, waiting for the elevator.
All of a sudden, the scene had fun potential, as Jennifer and the old   
boyfriend tried not to fight in front of the stranger, while the stranger   
threw in funny but pointless comments.  
The stranger had nothing to do with the story, but everything to do with
making the scene work.  
(It just occurred to me, the stranger made the scene
.ul 
active: 
instead of two people talking, it became two people trying to hide something
from a stranger.)   
.bt 
It's impossible to list what kind of circumstances can be used as a seed to 
a scene.
In Richard~III, there's a seduction scene that would be unremarkable

..].....



except for one circumstance: it takes place around the coffin of the
woman's dead husband, a man who was killed by the would-be seducer. 
This one thing makes the scene come alive with possibility. 
I could list other examples, and likely will in the workshop.   
.s3 Stage~Business  
This is the last factor in the Gathering stage, and is really a catch-all   
category.   
.bt 
For example, entrances and exits come under this heading.   
How does this scene open?   
Plan something active that will grab the audience's attention.  
Will you start with people on stage, or have them enter as the lights come up?  
What will they be doing?
Sometimes a good gimmick is to start with something a little strange to get 
the audience wondering what's going on. 
Another good gimmick is to start very energetically (an entrance, an
aggressive action, something) -- not only does this make the audience sit   
up and take notice, but it lets the actors get into gear too.   
.bt 
How will the scene end? 
It should be something that completes the action: punch lines are popular,  
as are songs, but dramatic crises also work (think of Captain University
running out on Bo Evil in 2-1). 
If you figure out the ending in the Gathering stage, you won't be stuck when
you get to the Writing stage, and you'll have something to aim for. 
.bt 
In French theatre, manuscripts are often typed to show a new scene starting 
every time someone enters or exits. 
This points out that an entrance or an exit in the middle of a FASS scene   
should be a bit of an event.
When someone enters, he or she almost always changes the direction of the   
action somehow. 
Pay attention to such entrances.
Make them count.
Decide in the Gathering stage how you are going to give them their due. 
.bt 
As an example of this, consider Bessie Seventonne's entrance in 1-1.
You'll recall that the band played Dragnet music so the audience knew   
someone important was coming on.
This was not written into the printed script -- it was added as part of that
Polishing process that happens during rehearsals.   
Even though Bessie's ultimatum to Doug Wright was the cause of everything   
that happened in the show, she was only on stage for a very short time in   
the scene.  
Something had to be done to cue the audience to pay attention to something  
that came and went very quickly.
.bt 
During the Gathering Stage, you should think about these things.
If something is important, figure out how to make it memorable. 
If characters are important, the importance should be reflected in their
entrances and exits.
.bt 
Special effects are also important to think about in the Gathering stage.   
Techies are very clever (remember the transporter effect in the Star Trek   
scenes of FASS '83), but there is a limit to what we can do on stage.   
Don't be chicken about technical things -- techies like challenges. 
However, if there's a chance that a particular effect may not be possible,  
ask someone about it
.ul 
now,
before you spend valuable time writing a scene that has to be scrapped  
due to technical impossibility. 
.s3 Miscellaneous~Stuff 
Bits and pieces: look for song opportunities during the Gathering stage.
There's no rule saying that you have to have songs, but if you see a
good opportunity for a song, don't hold back.   
Think of the mood that the song should convey (e.g. is it a love song, a
fight song, a beer-drinking song, whatever).
Do you want it to be a parody or original?  
What songs do you know that have the same kind of musical "feel"?   
.bt 
Write down jokes you think will be appropriate. 
Brainstorming sessions are good for providing large funds of jokes. 
Bear in mind that you may not get a chance to use every joke; but when you  
start the actual writing, you'll feel more secure if you already have a 
joke bank to draw on.   
.s2 Writing 
You've gathered everything you need?
You've slept on it? 
Then it's time to read over what you have to get it firm in your mind and   
start writing.  
.bt 
The most important thing in this stage is to get words onto paper.  
Write longhand or use a typewriter or put things into a computer, but produce!  
.bt 
Don't waste time worrying about the quality of what you're writing. 
That comes later, in the Editing stage. 
This is the time when you put your foot on your brain's accelerator and 
forget you have a brake pedal.  
.bt 
If you've Gathered enough material, you should have plenty to work on.  
You know how the scene starts, how it ends, and the general flow of events  
in between. 
You should have Gathered a seed too, something that excites you and makes   
your scene special to you.  
With these weapons in hand, you should be able to get started and keep going
to the end. 

.s3 First-Aid   
If everything is flowing nicely, don't worry about a thing. 
Ignore the rest of the advice in this section, because it doesn't pertain   
to you. 
These suggestions are   
.ul 
only
relevant when you find yourself staring at the paper and don't know what
to do next. 
.bt 
Don't spend long periods staring at the paper.  
Get up. 
Walk around.
Do something non-verbal like make the bed or play solitaire or have a shower.   
Why?
Because the creative half of your brain (the right hemisphere) is the   
non-verbal half and you can often fire up your creativity by doing non-verbal   
things. 
One exercise that sometimes works is to sit down or walk around and describe
everything your eyes light on.  
(Don't do this with other people around -- you'll likely feel silly enough  
as it is.)  
This helps you to   
.ul 
see 
things and pay attention to small details, something that can jump-start
your brain when it's sleeping.  
.bt 
If you don't know what happens next, think about your characters'   
.ul 
objectives. 
What are they up to?
What are they trying to do or make happen?  
What would they do next to achieve their goals. 
.bt 
A general once said, "No battle plan ever survives contact with the enemy." 
In our context, material that you have Gathered may prove inadequate when   
you get down to Writing.
If so, make a conscious switch to Gathering again, if only for a few minutes.   
Tell yourself you are Gathering, not Writing.   
Then you'll know that you can scribble ideas down on paper, not dialogue.   
When you're ready, make a clear switch to Writing and start the dialogue
again.  
.bt 
As far as dialogue goes, keep your words simple and concrete.   
Romeo didn't say that Juliet was good-looking, he put things in very concrete   
terms.  
.to 
But soft, what light on yonder window breaks?   
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.  
.tn 
(The literary minded may be interested to read Romeo and Juliet to see just 
how much Shakespeare uses light/dark imagery in the play.)  
In terms of FASS, try to make things as visual (or tactile or sensory in some   
other way) as you can.  
For example, characters should avoid vague lines like "I hate you" and say  
something more definite like "I want to rip off your nose and fill it with  
Pepsi". 
Not only does this give good gag possibilities, but it livens up your writing.  
.bt 
Avoid wimping out.  
Sometimes writers stop writing because they're afraid to take a scene as far
as it should go.
The audience comes to a show to see things happen to people.
However, a lot of our social training teaches us that we should pretend 
that things 
.ul 
don't   
happen -- we should hold back tears, we should restrain loud laughing, we   
should ignore loud stomach grumblings, and so on.   
This training makes writers reluctant to leave middle ground and to do  
something definite, even though that's precisely what the   
audience wants to see.  
.bt 
Why do audiences love Darth Vader (in the Star Wars IV and V)?  
Because he's a  
.ul 
complete
villain.
He's not namby-pamby, he's rotten through and through.  
Why do audiences love Clint Eastwood?   
Because they know that Clint really will pull the trigger if he gets any
static. 
Why do audiences love Bill Cosby?   
Because Cosby never tries to sugar-coat the behaviour of children or anyone 
else.   
.bt 
Getting back to FASS, if you have a villain who is working towards something
villainous, don't have him pull back at the last second.
If you have a couple who are working towards a love scene, let them get there.  
Don't set up a situation and then dissolve it in a muddle.  
.bt 
Along the same lines, the Writing Stage is not the point when you should be 
worrying about good or bad taste.   
That's what Editing is all about.   
For example, FASS usually steers clear of four-letter words.
However, if you get to a point where the only line you can give a character 
is "Fuck off!" or "Holy shit!" write the damned line and censor it if need  
be when you get to the Editing stage.   
Otherwise, you'll sit and brood, or you'll come up with something forced
and hokey, and your whole momentum will be disrupted.   
.bt 
Other people are sometimes helpful when you're blocked. 
You don't want to spill everything about your scene, but you may well ask   
a friend for a good insult if one is necessary, or a one-liner if you want one. 
.bt 
Keep working.   
If you're low on inspiration for a day, you may have to throw out 80% of
what you write, but that means you've made a 20% gain, haven't you? 
In five days, you'll be finished the first draft and the hard part is over. 
.s3 Format  
Some people worry about format. 
You've all seen a FASS script, and it's a good enough model to work with.   
.bt 
Make stage directions stand out from the actual dialogue (indent them,  
put them in capital letters, something like that).  
As you're writing the scene, it is often a good idea to have a picture of   
how people will move around the stage to act out various bits, but be   
wary of putting great detail into stage directions. 
For example, don't say "Exit stage right" -- you can say something like 
"Exit through kitchen door", but leave it up to the Director and Set
Designer to figure out where the kitchen door will be.  
.bt 
Don't worry much about lighting cues -- that's up to the techies and the
Director.   
Sound cues are usually special things, so should be written into the script.
.s2 Editing 
Editing starts when the first draft is done, not before.
I want to keep stressing how important I feel it is to separate critical
activities from creative ones.  
.bt 
What I call the Editing phase can often be combined with the Polishing, 
although I think the two are actually different.
Editing means that you are prepared to make major changes.  
Polishing means that you have accepted that things are in pretty good shape 
and just need some fine-tuning. 
.bt 
The major rule of editing is simple:
.to 0   
.ce 3   
.bf 3   
EVERYTHING NEEDS A REASON   
FOR BEING WHERE IT IS   
OR ELSE IT GETS CUT 
.tn 
Put a different way,
.to 0   
.ce 3   
.bf 3   
THE PEN OR TYPEWRITER   
SHOULD NEVER BE ALLOWED 
TO GO OFF ON ITS OWN
.tn 
Every word, every sentence, every speech, every stage direction, every  
sequence should have a good reason for being in your script.
If something doesn't have a reason for existing, and a  
.ul 
good
reason, it should be cut or changed, no matter how much work it means for you.  
.bt 
Furthermore, once you have decided on what job a word, sentence, or speech  
is performing, ask yourself if it is doing that job well (or at least   
adequately).
If it isn't, scrap it or change it. 
.bt 
This is a time for utter ruthlessness.  
If you don't get rid of the junk, it will have to be done in a group editing
session, or worse, it will get onstage and be seen by thousands of people.  
It will go by in a few seconds and it likely won't make a big impression
one way or another, but it will be a dead spot and the fewer FASS has, the  
better. 
.bt 
For an example of something that should have been edited, I'd like to point 
to a personal pet peeve from FASS '85.  
I was the techie who made the sign reading  
.to 
Welcome to  
Purgatory   
Pop. 238
.tn 
I sat in the shop painting while every techie and half the cast tramped through 
and asked what was funny about the "Population 238".
The answer is simple: nothing.  
A sign saying "Welcome to Purgatory" would have served just as nicely in
the context of the scene and wouldn't have confused cast, crew, and audience
(What does 238 mean?  Wouldn't Purgatory have more people?  And on.  And on.)   
.bt 
Compare this with the change made for Friday night late and held over for   
Saturday night. 
The sign was changed to read
.to 
Welcome to Purgatory.   
Over 50 billion served. 
.tn 
It got a laugh the second it was lowered.   
The people on stage didn't even have to read it out loud.   
(By the way, why
.ul 
did 
they have to read it out loud?  
The audience can read...)   
.bt 
Of course, this is a small point that I've blown up because of the hassles  
I had.  

But the point is important. 
The original sign confused people -- they couldn't see why the last bit was 
there and they thought they were missing something. 
The changed sign got an immediate laugh.
With a little work in the Editing stage, you can turn losers to winners.
.bt 
Look for jokes that aren't funny.   
Make them funny, replace them, or cut them. 
.bt 
Look for filler sentences.  
One that comes to mind was a line of Professor Rogers after Mary Anne has   
shut someone up in her usual forceful way.  
The line read   
.to 
Thank you, Mary Anne.  I don't know what
I'd do without you. 
.tn 
As far as I'm concerned, the second sentence is unnecessary.
It's not funny, and it doesn't add anything to plot or characterization.
It just slows things up.
.bt 
Look for forced cleverness. 
Humour that arises in a natural way is delightful.  
Gags that are pushed in unnaturally may get small laughs, but they often
break the flow and force you to make some sort of clumsy recovery.  
.bt 
Get rid of pointless redundancy.
As an example, go back to the purgatory scene this year.
The heroes come in and read the purgatory sign. 
There is a bit of chatter.  

..].....



Then Frogman comes in and Tadpole asks, "Where are we, Frogman?"
The audience has already been through this once.
We don't need it again. 
(Once in a while, important points need to be brought up more than once 
if there is some doubt that the audience will understand the first time.
However, it is better to fix this problem by making the first time  
clearer, than by repeating things later on.)
.bt 
In the Writing process, you do not censor; in the Editing process, you do.  
Ideally, FASS should not attack people on the basis of race, colour,
creed, gender, sexual orientation, physical handicaps, or any other such
characteristic. 
The best criterion is to avoid saying anything about any class of people
that you wouldn't say if such a person were in the room.
This year FASS had an audience of about 3500 people.
Some of those people were sure to be black, or Polish, or Catholic, or  
gay, or handicapped somehow, and we have no right to insult them.   
(Engineers, on the other hand,  
.ul 
chose   
to be Engineers, so they're fair game...)   
.bt 
Go back over the principles we talked about in the Gathering and Writing
sections.    wonIn places where you've deviated from these principle

In places where you've deviated from these principles, do the results   
justify what you've done?   
As a quick check-list:  
.hb 3 8 (a) 
Plot and character points should be conveyed in active ways, not through
chatter.
.hb 3 8 (b) 
Every speech should use concrete words and images as much as possible.  
.hb 3 8 (c) 
Every entrance and exit should be important.
.hb 3 8 (d) 
Important events should be appear important.
This sometimes means drawing them out a little bit longer so they occupy
a significant length of time on stage.  
.hb 3 8 (e) 
Important events should be seen, not just talked about. 
.hb 3 8 (f) 
Make sure you have done everything your scene was supposed to do when   
the show's plot was outlined by the group of writers.   
For example, in the first draft of this year's script, the writers  
accidentally omitted any mention of the villains challenging the heroes 
to a rumble...left me awfully confused the first time I read it.
.bt 
As you cut things out, you will often find that you have to write new   
things to fill in the gaps. 
If you must do significant writing, make sure you make a conscious switch    thato Writing Mode and leave the Editing mentality comp

to Writing Mode and leave the Editing mentality completely behind.  
Don't worry that you'll just end up producing new junk. 
What you have done while Editing will leave a residue of good intentions
that should give second attempts a higher quality.  
Furthermore, you are building on what you did the first time, so you're 
bound to turn out better work.  
.bt 
The Editing process is often painful.   
It's hard being merciless with material that you've spent time producing.   
As consolation, it's something of a magic process too.  
You take so-so lumps of coal and gradually crystallize them into diamonds.  
It's wonderful when it happens. 
.s3 Trivial~Tips
Write or type your first draft double-spaced so you have lots of room   
to make changes.
.bt 
Rewrite or retype drafts every so often, when all the pen scratchings make  
things hard to read.
Sometimes, you can make changes as you make the new copy.   
.bt 
Don't throw away old drafts.
Sometimes you may need them again.  
Besides, you can get a real ego boost by comparing the final draft to   
the first one.  
.bt 
Read your draft out loud slowly as you edit (or at least under your breath).
Otherwise, you'll find yourself skipping stuff and skimming ahead.  
Why do you skip parts of the script?
Because you find them boring.   
That should give you a clue about places you should concentrate on for  
revision.   
.bt 
Put your draft on a clipboard and edit it that way, instead of sitting at   
a desk. 
The more you remove yourself from the place of creation and set yourself up 
as impartial judge, the better your judgement will be.  
.s2 Polishing   
Once you have made the major editing changes and have a script that doesn't 
need significant rewrites, you can put on the finishing touches.
At this point, the trick is to watch for
.ul 
signals,
warning signs that can tip you off to imperfections.
Here's a partial list of signals.   
.oc Tongue~Stumbles 4   
Read the script through from start to finish, reading only the actual   
dialogue (not the stage directions).
Any place your tongue stumbles is a spot you should check to see if the 
line needs some rewriting.  
Why?
Because often the meaning of the sentence is not crystal clear as it stands,
and you stumbled because you had to back up and figure out what it meant.   laceIf you had trouble, the audience could have 

If you had trouble, the audience could have trouble.
.oc Long~Speeches 4 
Look carefully at any speech longer than three typed lines. 
Experience has taught that long speeches tend to drag the pace and energy of
the stage performance.  
If necessary, break the speech up into smaller speeches, either spread between  
several speakers or by the same speaker with short interjections from other 
characters. 
.bl 4   
As a rule of thumb, every speech should deal with a single thought or   
subject.
This makes it easier for the audience to assimilate what's being said, since
they get things in logically coherent chunks.   
If a single speech is dealing with more than one thought or subject,
consider splitting it whenever the subject changes, either with a short 
interjection from another character or with some meaningful action on the   
part of the speaker.
.bl 4   
I want to make sure people understand that I'm not condemning   
.ul 
all 
lengthy speeches.   
What would Hamlet be without soliloquies?   
However, length is a
.ul 
signal  
that you should not ignore. 
Look closely at long speeches and make sure they're going to work.  
.oc Stage~Directions 4  
Stage directions can signal dialogue weaknesses.
If you have to put a stage direction like (NASTILY) to tell the actor how   
to say a particular speech, the line is likely limp.
A nasty line should be clearly nasty; the actor should need no hints.   
See if you can change the line so its intention is obvious. 
The dialogue will be strengthened and you can take out the stage direction. 
.bl 4   
Other kinds of stage directions may also be unnecessary.
I already noted that stage directions shouldn't try to do the Director's job.   
One shouldn't be fanatic about it, but the fewer stage directions I need in 
my scenes, the happier I am.
It makes me feel that the dialogue is stronger. 
.oc Mono-Syllabic~Grunts 4  
Some writers have a temptation to start every other line with "Well", as in 
.to 
Well, what are we going to do now?  
.tn 4   
Other favourite mono-syllabic grunts are "Umm", "Uhh", and "Right?", as in  
.to 
You're ready to go, right?  
.tn 4   
All these things are perfectly natural in normal speech, but of limited use 
in scripted speech. 
Writers use these grunt-words to make the dialogue a little less
aggressive and forthright.  
Why?
This is a play, and being blunt makes things happen.
Holding back is cheating the audience.  
.bt 
One important aspect of polishing has little to do with writing, and
everything to do with how FASS works.   
We're a volunteer group of people who, by and large, have no particular 
drive to end up as acting professionals.
This means that just being on stage is not enough of a reward.  
.to 0   
.bf 3   
.ce 3   
EVERY PART, 
NO MATTER HOW SMALL,
SHOULD HAVE SOMETHING INTERESTING TO DO 
.tn 
If you write a boring bit part, there's always the possibility that it  
will be given to an actor who does nothing else in the rest of the show.
Try to avoid this problem.  
Look at every part and give the character   
.ul 
something   
to be happy about.  
Switch some speeches around so the actor gets to deliver a punch line;  
give the character a snappy entrance or exit (remember Green Man in 
1-4? didn't have a line, but got a round of applause every night);  
give the character an interesting prop or costume.  
Invent something if you have to, but make it worth that actor's while   
to show up to rehearsals and to walk on that stage. 
.s1 Songs   roubSongs and music are a major 

Songs and music are a major part of FASS.   
More than anything else, they contribute to cast morale and spirit. 
Think of the readthrough on the Friday No-Talent night -- the jokes got 
laughs or groans, but the songs got applause.   
.bt 
Most tunes in FASS are stolen from other songs. 
There is no rule that says this has to be so, but good original songs are   
harder for most people to write.
Since I don't want to give a music course at the moment, the rest of this   
chapter will assume that the songs you will write will be lifted.   
.bt 
There are four major justifications for putting a song in a scene:  
.hb 3 8 (a) 
The song is very funny. 
.hb 3 8 (b) 
The song is a clever parody of the original.
.hb 3 8 (c) 
The song is musically interesting (this includes songs that can lead to 
good production numbers).   
.hb 3 8 (d) 
The song is important to the plot.  
.bt 
Right off the bat, Justification (d) needs some discussion. 
The problem with songs is that their words are often harder to understand   
than normal dialogue.   
Singers can be too soft and instrumentalists can be too loud.   
On top of all this, the requirements of the tune can distort the pronunciation  

of words and make them difficult to pick up.
(Think of songs on the radio -- they are carefully recorded so that the 
vocalist is heard over the instrumental music, but you often have to listen 
carefully several times before you can make out certain lines.) 
Furthermore, if a song is not entertaining in other ways, the audience will 
tend to tune out soon into the music and ignore what is being said. 
This means that they'll miss the plot developments, which is what the   
song was supposed to be presenting. 
.bt 
For this reason, it is a bit risky to put important plot developments inside
songs.  
If you want to do it, make sure you have "back-up": either give characters  
actions that reinforce what the song says (as in the 1-5 rumble scene, where
the fighting made up for the fact that most of the singing couldn't be heard,   
or in most love songs where you have two people staring into each other's   
eyes), or else repeat the plot points in normal dialogue immediately before 
or after the song.  
.bt 
If a song doesn't fulfill one or more of the four criteria given above, 
it can only have one other saving grace: it can be short.   ve aYou can almost always get away with two or three lines o

You can almost always get away with two or three lines of music, no 
matter how uninspired they are -- the sheer variety of music after spoken   
dialogue is a pleasing change.  
Once it loses the novelty effect, however, it had better have something else
going for it.   
.bt 
Songs should sing nicely to the intended music. 
They do not have to have the same number of syllables as the original -- many   
songs change syllables slightly from verse to verse, anyway -- but  
words and tune should blend well.   
It helps if the mood of the original tune matches the mood of the new   
words...although some nice comic effects are possible if the two are
at complete odds.   
.bt 
Think twice about giving very up-tempo pieces to large numbers of people.   
In practice, the sound usually turns out muddy because they can't stay  
together close enough.  
It can be made to work (as in this year's closing song), but everybody  
has to put more effort into it. 
.s1 Jokes   
This is the section I have been dreading since I started writing this.  
How do I help people make jokes funnier without introducing mechanical  
formulas?   
(I don't think formulas work very well. 
They discourage originality and lead to the same old thing year after year. 
One of my goals is to help new writers breathe new life into the script 
writing process.)   
.bt 
Well, I should start by emphasizing that there is more to humour than   
"jokes".
Bill Cosby almost never tells jokes -- he just talks about the way people   
really behave.  
Bill Murray and Dan Aykroyd don't do jokes either; they just play funny 
characters. 
The best situation comedies draw humour from situations, not just one-liners.   
.bt 
There have been many good FASS scenes without jokes.
They had amusing interesting characters, or good satire, or funny situations
or combinations of these things.
If you don't happen to have a supply of "zingers", you can still write a
memorable scene.
.bt 
However, we've talked about characters and funny circumstances, 
and the title of this chapter is "Jokes".   
For better or worse, I'll venture a few tips on how to make jokes pay   
off better...or at least how to avoid ruining them. 
(Remember what I said about rules?  
This is doubly important when it comes to telling jokes.
There are no firm rules, just ways to increase the probability of    thehitting the funn

hitting the funny bone.)
.s2 Positioning 
The best place for a joke is at the end of a line.  
People are going to laugh at the joke, and the laughter is going to cover   
whatever comes after.   
If there's more to the line, you have to delay it and that's a pain.
.bt 
If the joke comes in the middle of a line, some people are going to get 
it immediately and laugh before the rest of the line comes out. 
The others are going to catch on a little slower or else delay their laughter   
until the line is finished. 
You get stale laughter, and that's not as natural.  
.bt 
As an example of this, consider the line from 2-6:  
.to 
We always give iron wings to engineers. 
.tn 
I am willing to be sizable amounts of money that it would get more laughs   
if it had been said,
.to 
We always give engineers iron wings.
.tn 
The punch comes at the very end of the line.
The audience is immediately free to laugh without waiting.  
(Remember, timing is everything in humour.) 
.bt 
The second best place for a joke is at the very beginning of a line.
This makes for a very fast snap -- no sooner does a character start speaking
than he says something funny.   ay wHe sounds quick-witted a


..].....



He sounds quick-witted and the audience laughs in admiration.   
.bt 
You should also think about the position of a joke in the scene.
For example, you should never "write over" laughter or applause.
You 
.ul 
know
that there is always going to be applause after a song. 
Therefore, it's a mistake to write a joke that  
.ul 
must
come snappily after the end of a song.  
The joke will be lost under the applause, or else the actors will have to   
squelch the applause to get the joke in.
Either effect is undesirable.   
.s2 Pun-Running 
Puns should always take the audience by surprise.   
Try not to make set-ups obvious, and try to make them quick.
Make dialogue as natural as possible up to the point of the pun.
For example, a viking stumbles on stage.
It makes sense to ask   
.to 
Who are you?
.tn 
His reply is straight, "I'm Eric the Blue." 
This leads to the obvious   
.to 
I thought it was Eric the Red.  
.tn 
and we take the audience by surprise with   
.to 
No, I'm a Norse of a different colour.  
.tn 
The set-up is quick and there are no awkward twists of phrase to telegraph  
that we are up to something.
.bt 
Chains of puns like the "bread" jokes in 1-2 are very tenuous things.   
The first pun must be a surprise.   
From that point onward, every succeeding pun should come at the end of  
the sentence, and the sentences should seem normal until the pun.   
The audience can't believe that we're going to do yet another pun,  
so it takes them by surprise again and again.   
There is a law of diminishing return to this -- after three or four in a
row, the audience comes to expect more puns and their laughter diminishes.  
.s2 Re-incorporation
Re-incorporation is surprising the audience by bringing back a familiar 
thing that they had pretty well forgotten.  
The system fact of some old thing returning in a new setting can get
a laugh.
For example, when Tom Alligator showed up in Purgatory in the final scene,  
he got his biggest laugh of the show simply walking onstage.
It's sort of a peekaboo effect: something goes out of sight for a while,
and the baby laughs when it suddenly reappears. 
.bt 
You see the same effect in TV series.   
For example, on Mork and Mindy, the audience always howls when Exidor appears   
in another strange situation, regardless of how funny Exidor actually is.   ing He's fam

He's familiar, but unexpected.  
A similar (but not laughing) reaction occurs when the cavalry comes charging
over the hill in the final reel of a western...provided you haven't been
expecting them for the last half hour.  
In Star Wars IV, the Millennium Falcon comes out of nowhere to help Luke
at the last minute, and the audience cheers.
.bt 
Bringing back characters ties a story together and also delights the
audience...well worth trying.   
.s2 Running~Jokes   
When running jokes work, they work because of the re-incorporation effect.  
A familiar thing shows up unexpectedly in a new location.   
.bt 
There are some minimal requirements for a running joke, and if they are 
not met, the joke should probably be scrapped.  
First of all, the joke should start out funny.  
I think this was one of the problems with the 37ths of an inch routine in   
FASS '85 -- it wasn't boffo enough on its own, so the repetitions of the
phrase didn't have anything to build on.
It was out of place the first time it was mentioned (it didn't sound
natural), so there was no thrill when it showed up again in new places. 
The same goes for the "sexy tights" motif.  
.bt 
On the other hand, the IBM clones could do no wrong.
They got the biggest laugh of the show with their first line, and another   
huge laugh when they suddenly appeared in heaven.   
.bt 
The second requirement for running jokes is that they take the audience 
by surprise when they reappear. 
Again, this was a problem with the 37ths of an inch routine -- it was   
originally associated with nerds and it hovered around them all night.  
If someone else brought it up, it might have got a laugh.   
.s2 Physical~Humour 
FASS writers concentrate on verbal humour so much, they often neglect   
the possibilities for physical humour.  
But physical humour is more surefire than most comedy forms, provided it
is in the hands of a good actor.
Think of Herr Wolfgang's cooking class in 1-2: he got a laugh every time
the chicken's head hit the desk.
(By the way, this is also an example of going all the way with an idea. 
If Wolfgang had been gentle with the chicken, he wouldn't have got the  
laughs. 
John had the nerve to go to the extreme, and the audience appreciated it.)  
.bt 
Physical humour is fairly primal.   
Often, it involves someone getting hurt (Three Stooges style -- remember
that poor rubber chicken) or a gross-out (John Belushi stuffing his face
in Animal House).   
For this reason, it is good to mix it in with other forms of humour to  
tame it down a bit. 
.s2 The~Rule~of~Three   
In our society, the funny thing usually happens the third time something
is tried.   
This is illustrated by a number of travelling salesman jokes that I won't   
go into in print.   
Generally speaking, three jokes in a row build on each other; the fourth
often comes as a let down.  
.bt 
When you are listing things (as in 1-3 where Nastyman is listing the
reasons why he is evil), a good rule of thumb is to have three things in
the list, and give them in increasing order of funniness.   
.s1 Writing~Assignment  
The only way to learn how to write is to write. 
To give you a chance to write a FASS scene, we'll use a simple set-up   
that imitates the typical situation you face when writing a scene.  
.bt 
The theme we're working with is Gilligan's Island.  
We chose this because it is a fairly well-known area with a few well-known  
characters, and because it has nothing to do with this year's theme.
.bt 
Assume that we have been brainstorming on the theme for a while and have
generated a loose plot outline. 
The scene you are going to have to write is from the middle of the  
play (maybe Act II, Scene 1).   
Here's what the outline says.   
.bl 5   
.ll -5  
In a previous scene, two UW students were tied to each other and set
adrift in a boat.   
In this scene, the boat washes up on Gilligan's Island. 
The island people see the boat as an opportunity for rescue and begin to
pack.   
However, Gilligan does something stupid that sends the students off in  
the boat again. 
.ll +5  
.bl 
This gives you a fair bit of room for invention.
What are the personalities of the UW students?  
What are the island people doing before the students show up?   
How do the islanders react when the students appear?
What does Gilligan do that sends the students away (maybe he makes them 
mad; maybe he gives them a signal to leave; maybe he has some reason to 
persuade the students to leave without the islanders)?  
.bt 
Note that this can take place at any time of day, and the action can take   
place in any kind of weather.   
Invent circumstances if desired.
The major characters are listed below -- I've made some personality 
suggestions in case you don't know the Gilligan's Island series all that well,  
but feel free to change things if you want. 
.occ Skipper
A crusty but benign sailor. 
.occ Gilligan   
Clumsy but well-meaning first mate. 
.occ Professor  
A genius who can build a radio out of coconuts. 
.occ 'Mary Anne'
A wholesome country girl.   
.occ Ginger 
Glamourous movie star who can seduce anyone and always  
remembers how they solved a problem just like this one in one of her
old movies. 
.occ 'Thurston Howell III'  
Upper crust millionaire.
.occ 'Mrs.Howell (Lovey)'   
His upper crust wife.   
.bl 
Invent other characters as necessary, and omit any of the above that
you don't need. 
.bt 
The scene should be the equivalent of 3-10 pages of typed, double-spaced
material.   
Hand-written is okay, but I have to be able to read it. 
Try to write a complete scene, but if you get into time troubles, at least  
take part of the scene and Gather, Write, Edit, and Polish. 
If you want to discuss problems that you're having, see me at Writers'  
Meetings.   
.bt 
As noted at the very beginning, I would like to have a look at your scenes  
before the second session, which means you should deliver them to my office 
no later than Friday, October 11.   
Make at least two additional copies of the scenes (so that means three  
copies, counting the one you give me).  
It is possible that you will be exchanging scenes with another person so you
can help each other.
.sq 
