


..]....@
jagardner...





















.an (manu) 1
.so expl/../macr.t  
.fo ''- % -''   
.tl 
OVERALL COMMENTS
.bt 
The quality of these scenes was very high, significantly higher than usual  
(as far as I remember what is usual for FASS scenes).   
Most could go directly to a group edit with no difficulty whatsoever.   
.bt 
I am delighted with the many different directions that the scenes took. 
Almost all of them took care of all the points laid down in the outline 
and added good material besides.
(This demonstrates an important point about plot: in itself, plot is only   
a small part of what actually happens in a play.
The 
.ul 
substance   
of a show comes from many other things.)
.bt 
There is really only one problem that everybody shares and it's a problem   
that plagues every writer: how much time do you spend on each part of the   
scene?  
This breaks down into two sub-problems -- "running past" and "spinning your 
wheels".
.bt 
"Running past" is covering a piece of the scene too quickly.
You have some important point to make and you zip by it without giving it   
time to sink into the audience's minds. 

This is really easy to do when you are writing, because you may sit and 
think about the line for quite some time, so it 
.ul 
feels   
as if you've dwelled on it long enough. 
In the actual script, however, the thing doesn't take much time at all. 
You don't have to spoonfeed the audience, but you do have to give them time 
to pick up things that form the basis for further action.   
.bt 
One common source of running past is "delicacy".
Instead of coming out and saying something directly, the writer tries to be 
"delicate" and talk around a particular fact.   
As an example, in Mike Upmalis's script, it's important that Maid Marian
is miffed because Robin asks if she is having her period.   
You don't have to beat the audience over the head with this point, but you  
do have to understand what Robin is talking about.  
If Robin's line is too delicate, the audience won't clue in to what he's
saying and they'll be confused through the lines to come.   
.bt 
There are other reasons for circumlocution, and many are justified. 
Nevertheless, you have to pay attention to the end result of not calling a  
spade a spade.  
The audience has to understand what you want them to understand.

This means that you have to be direct, or you have to spend time being  
indirect so they can figure out what you mean.  
.bt 
The other thing I mentioned was "spinning your wheels". 
This is the opposite of "running past": belabouring a point that is 
unimportant.
A great deal of time goes by on stage without much happening.   
I'm not necessarily talking about plot here -- a gigantically funny 
bit of business is its own justification (most of the time).
I'm talking about ho-hum passages that go on for too long without going in  
any particular direction.   
.bt 
There are two ways to correct passages where you spin your wheels: cut  
them down or punch them up. 
Which you do depends on your situation and inspiration. 
If you can think of stuff to make the material richer and more stageworthy, 
add it. 
On the other hand, it is no weakness just to trim things that are longer
than they need to be.   
.bt 
Of course, the real trick lies in walking the middle ground betwen running  
past and spinning your wheels.  
It's often difficult to figure out how much to put in to avoid running  
past and how much to leave out to avoid spinning your wheels.   you Reading your scene aloud can hel

Reading your scene aloud can help.  
Experience will also help.  
An outside observer whom you trust is probably the best help of all.
All the observer has to do is point out the areas where (s)he's confused
or bored, and you can usually do the rest.  
.bt 
Another problem that showed up in several scripts is "hand-waving". 
This is indicating a number of actions that should happen on stage without  
showing how those things should actually be done.   
More to the point, it's writing a lot of stage directions to describe an
action without actually developing a picture of how the action should take  
place.  
.bt 
You can certainly have a lot of action take place without dialogue, 
especially if the whole point of the action is that there IS no dialogue
(e.g. when person A is sneaking up on unsuspecting person B).   
However, a number of people wrote sequences that I thought would require
dialogue when they were actually played out on stage, but the writers did   
not give any dialogue.  
To me, this says that the writer didn't take the trouble to picture how 
the piece would actually be performed.  
.bt 
Trite dialogue is better than silence if the silence would seem unusual loudin the c

in the context of the scene.
Of course, brilliant dialogue is to be preferred, and that's possible   
if you put in the trite dialogue to begin with. 
It's easier to improve something that is there than to come up with 
brilliance off the cuff.
.hd Trivia  
These are just some points I left out of last week's write-up.  
I'm working here at the computer reviewing everyone's scenes, and I'll  
add to this list as I go.   
.bt 
Try to keep character names as different as possible.   
If you have a Robin, Robert, and Richard all on stage at the same time, 
the audience will have trouble keeping things straight. 
.bt 
One comedy gimmick you might consider is the use of tongue-twisters.
Audiences are delighted when an actor gets all the way through a
tongue-twister. 
Series of tongue-twisters often work as well as series of puns, and are 
put together in the same way.   
.bt 
In fact, verbal humour has a lot more to it than just puns. 
Think of the famous "Who's on First Base" sketch.   
As I recall it, it had nothing I would really call a pun, but it was chock  
full of wordplay.   
Perhaps we should call this Fast Talk; whatever it is, it often works.   wou(Repeated disclaimer: just b

(Repeated disclaimer: just because I say Fast Talk works does   
.ul 
not 
mean you should force it into a scene.  
If you find an opportunity for Fast Talk and the Fast Talk delights you,
put it in.  
If you dispassionately invent some Fast Talk and jam it into your script
because I said it was a good gimmick to use, it's going to die.)
.bt 
One of the most common lines in FASS is "Shut up".  
It's essentially a way to brush off a gag-line that has just happened, so   
that the action can take a new direction.   
.bt 
A past Chief Scriptwriter, Oscar Nierstasz, was violently opposed to
"Shut ups". 
They are, of course, weak rejoinders, especially if the preceding line  
really was funny.   
I agree that "Shut ups" are signals to look for in polishing.   
Many times they aren't necessary.   
Many times they are just attempts to get laughs through being nasty...but   
let's face it, "Shut up" just isn't extreme enough to make much of  
an impression on the audience -- a stronger put-down may work much better.  
.bt 
If you find you have a lot of "Shut ups" that you don't want to part with,  
try making them into something more important, e.g. a running joke of   
some sort.  st b

.bt 
The playwright Ibsen once said, "Never hang a gun on the wall in Act~One
unless you intend to shoot someone by Act~Three."   
In FASS terms, this means that you should never set something up without
giving a pay-off.   
A classic example of this is the Super-Snail business in 1-1 this year. 
With two lines about Super-Snail almost reaching the stadium, we should 
have had him or her show up...or else we should have cut the lines. 
.bt 
Lines often become cleaner if you replace "what for" with "why".
