


...`....






















.an (manu) 1
.so expl/../macr.t  
.fo ''- % -''   
.hd 'Music Director'
The Music Director has two jobs: to supervise rehearsals of the musical 
numbers in the show; and to act as a musical "resource person" for other
members of the Committee, cast, and crew.   
Most people only know about the first job, but the second job is just as
important, if not more so.  
.tp 
The Music Director should have a good sense of music.   
It is   
.ul 
not 
necessary for the Music Director to serve as Pianist for the show.  
FASS has operated perfectly well in the past with one person serving as Music   
Director and another serving as Pianist.
If a particular year has a separate Music Director and Pianist, it is up to 
the two of them to decide how to divide their duties; however, the final
responsibility for musical tasks should always go to the Music Director alone.  
The FASS chain of command and communication always works better when there  
is only one person in charge of a given area.   
.tp 
The Music Director should also have a good sense of leadership. 
For example, it is usually the Music Director who takes the cast through
the first rehearsals of the opening and closing songs.  
It's
.ul 
hard
to ride herd on 50-100 people for a couple of hours and get them to work
for you.
It's even harder if the Music Director is too weak or domineering to
keep things moving along.   
.tp 
Most important, the Music Director should be someone who is committed to
doing a superlative job.
Music is one of the most important aspects of FASS -- long after characters 
and jokes and special effects are forgotten, cast and crew and audience 
members will be singing songs from past shows.  
.ul 
Make every musical number special.  
Go into the job with ambitions. 
You'll have to be flexible enough to adapt your ambition to the capabilities
of the people you work with, but don't become Music Director if you think   
FASS songs are cheap little numbers thrown off by low-talent performers.
You should be prepared to assess the material you have to work with and to  
make every musical bit into something everyone is proud of. 
.hd Preparation 
The Director chooses the Music Director in the fall, and of course, the 
earlier the better. 
If you are interested in being Music Director, let the Director know, even  
before the fall General Meeting.
Talk about your ideas and your ambitions, as well as your musical background.   
If you aren't a pianist yourself, you should find one you can work with and 
make sure the Director knows.   
Not surprisingly, Directors prefer to see a complete package -- it's a pain 
to name a Music Director and then have to scour the woods for a pianist who 
just wants to be Pianist.   
.tp 
If you are chosen Music Director (and even if you aren't), you should   
attend scriptwriter meetings whenever possible. 
Remember that you are the music resource person for the entire company. 
You're an ideal person to help out writers who are having trouble with songs.   
Talk to the Chief Scriptwriter and see if (s)he has anything special you
can do...and if you have any musical ideas you'd like to see in the show,   
discuss them with the Chief Scriptwriter and see if there's a good way to   
put them in.
Since you have a fuller background in music than the average person off the 
street, the odds are good that you will have a lot of fresh musical ideas   
that won't occur to the average writer. 
However,
.ul 
never, ever, ever pull rank.
Don't say, "I'm the Music Director and I know best"; just come up with a
lot of nifty things that will wow the other writers so much that they'll be 
eager to put it all in the script.  
.tp 
Things to look for: make sure there are one or two good chances for 
production numbers in the show. 
Make sure there are one or two or three solos, since there are certain to be
some really good voices in the cast that should be allowed to shine.
The rest of the songs will fall into the "small group" category and that's  
a good thing; small group numbers are easy to rehearse and comparatively
easy to get good sound quality on.  
The opening and closing songs should be suitable for singing by large groups
of people: not too fast (because it will sound muddy) and not too slow  
(because it's hard to keep a stage full of people together if the number
doesn't have a beat).   
Also look for variety in songs: are there some you can accompany with guitar
instead of piano?   
Can you come up with even fuller orchestration here and there (e.g. a musical   
break in a production number where you can add brass or woodwinds)? 
Can songs be split so that some verses are sung by soloists and some by groups? 
.tp 
If you have doubts about the way some songs are shaping up, talk about it   
with the Chief Scriptwriter 
.ul 
in private. 
If you do it when other writers are standing around 
.hb 3 8 (a) 
it will take infinitely longer to decide what to do about the situation;
.hb 3 8 (b) 
you may undermine the Chief Scriptwriter's authority;   
.hb 3 8 (c) 
everyone will get defensive and hostile.
.bl 
If you see a problem, point it out to the Chief Scriptwriter, discuss it,   
and then let him/her be in charge of fixing it. 
.hd 'By December'   
By December, script editing sessions should be in full swing.   
You can help the Chief Scriptwriter by volunteering to make sure that all   
the songs scan properly.
Remember though that right now you are only a resource person; the script   
is the Chief Scriptwriter's responsibility and it is up to him/her how it   
is edited and who does it.  
.tp 
By the middle of December, the script should be in close to final form. 
(In fact, it should be finished, but things don't always work out that  
easily.)
Get a good draft of the script and get a list of the songs in it.   
Now is the time to make sure that the Pianist can play it all.  
.tp 
Sometimes FASS is lucky and has a Pianist who can play by ear.  
If so, it is still necessary to round up recordings of the pieces the   
Pianist doesn't know so he or she can learn them by listening.  
The writers can help in this -- many of them wrote the original songs from  
recordings they happen to own, so you can borrow records or make tapes. 
.tp 
If there are some songs that the Pianist cannot learn by ear, it will be
necessary to find sheet music.  
Ask other people in FASS (e.g. the Director) who is likely to have  
sheet music; FASSers from previous years sometimes have large libraries 
of sheet music. 
If you cannot find what you want inside FASS, there are several other good  
sources:
.hb 3 8 (a) 
The UW library has a fair amount of sheet music from operas, operettas  
(e.g. Gilbert and Sullivan), and Broadway-type musicals.
.hb 3 8 (b) 
The WLU library has the same sort of stuff. 
Anyone with a UW library card can take things out at WLU.   
.hb 3 8 (c) 
The Kitchener Public Library (Queen St. South, Kitchener) also has a good   
supply of sheet music.  
They tend to have "Greatest Hits of the Seventies" books as well as operas  
and musicals, so you can find a lot there.  
.bl 
All three libraries are free (KPL charges a quarter for a library card, 
and anyone living in KW can get one).   
.tp 
If worst comes to worst, you can buy the music. 
Waterloo Music Company (3 Regina Street North, just off Erb Street behind   
the Waterloo Hotel) has the widest music selection in town. 
They also give students a 10 per cent discount on certain kinds of music, so
take someone's student's card if you go.
Before you buy the music, contact the President and get authorization to
spend the money.
FASS will reimburse you for the expense (and sheet music is expensive!),
but you have to get authorization beforehand.   
You also have to turn in a receipt, so get one in the name of the FASS  
Theatre Company.
(Note: FASS keeps any music it pays for.
There is a small supply of sheet music from previous years hidden somewhere 
in the FASS office, or at least there was.) 
.tp 
By the way, there is a chance that someone will want original music in the  
show, not just rip-offs from hither, thither, and yon.  
Usually the "someone" will be you or the Director, but that's immaterial.   
Talk to the writer and the Chief Scriptwriter to get some idea of what  
kind of music they want, then see what you can come up with.
(Of course, you can always delegate the composing to someone else if you
know someone who'd do a better job.)
.hd 'Over the Christmas Break'  
The Pianist should learn the music. 
If possible, learn it well enough to transpose it into new keys.
.tp 
Check the range of notes in each song.  
Songs for large groups (opening song, closing song, and maybe others) should
stick between middle C and the D or E in the next octave (men will sing 
this down the octave).  
If the music you have moves significantly out of this range, transpose it.  
If you can't transpose it so that it stays in this range, be prepared for a 
lot of people being unable to sing it.  
Let some people sing the melody and write simple harmonies for the rest.
Or, plan on breaking the song into sections: people with high voices will   
sing a line with high notes, followed by people with low voices singing a   
line with low notes.
At any rate, figure out some way to work around the problem.
.tp 
With songs that are sung by smaller groups, you'll have to be ready for quirks. 
The large-group range (C to D or E) is still your best bet, but it may not  
work -- a group of five people that has three lower voices (male or female) 
and two higher voices (male or female) has to be accommodated somehow, and  
who knows what the best compromise will turn out to be? 
Learn the songs in whatever key fits in the large-group range and be prepared   
for transposing later on.   
.tp 
Oddly enough, most solos do not have to be transposed from the original key.
Soloists get to be soloists because they can sing anything anywhere.
Furthermore, the people who have continued to sing since they were young are
usually the people whose voices are best suited to today's popular music,   
the ones who have no problem singing along with the radio.  
Therefore, soloists usually have good ranges for the stuff FASS asks them   
to sing.
Of course, you may find that some solos need transposing eventually, but you
can wait on this until rehearsals begin.
(It is likely a mistake to transpose solos into the large-group range --
soloists are exciting to listen to because of their lows or their highs,
not because of their averages.) 
.tp 
Once you know what the music sounds like, you should decide what you are
going to do with each number.   
.ul 
Every piece should have a concept:  
you can make one Country and Western, one a deeply felt love song, one in   
the style of Gilbert and Sullivan, and so on.   
Songs are show biz and should be treated as such -- there is nothing wrong  
with a number that is done as a bunch of cheerful people belting out a song 
with as much energy as possible, but don't do every piece that way. 
Show some originality and put character into every selection.   
(Example: what songs do you remember from Jesus Christ, Superstar?  
The odds are you'll remember the ones with character: Herod's song, and 
I Don't Know How to Love Him.   
The others are about as good musically, but they don't have the stand-out   
impact of the ones with a special feel.)
.tp 
Of course, you should discuss every concept with the Director and the other 
pertinent people (e.g. Pianist and Choreographer), before   
Christmas or early in January.  
They will no doubt have concepts of their own for some songs, and   
you will have to work out details together. 
(Note: the Director always has the last word.)  
On the other hand, they all have other worries besides the music
and will usually be grateful if you take it upon yourself to give every song
its own spirit. 
Find out what everyone else wants and then fill in the gaps on your own.
It's up to you to make sure that
.ul 
every   
musical number works.   
.hd Auditions   
In auditions, as in other areas, your role is to act as musical resource
person, this time for the Director. 
The Director can run auditions however he or she wants and you should be
prepared to serve in any appropriate capacity.  
.tp 
Usually, the Director will ask the Music Director to run musical auditions. 
In the past, the Director has run acting auditions on stage while the Music 
Director runs singing auditions in another room.
The room for singing auditions should have a piano, since it is important   
to make sure that people can sing in tune with a piano (some people can 
sing in tune with themselves but not with others, so a capella auditions
don't tell the whole story).
.tp 
Here is one way in which singing auditions have run successfully.   someThis is not the only way by any means, but it has worked fairly 

This is not the only way by any means, but it has worked fairly well in past.   
.hb 3 8 (a) 
The Music Director posts a list of five minute time slots for music 
auditions.  
People coming to general auditions sign up for a particular slot.   
Music auditions are held at the same time as acting auditions, so that some 
people are reading on stage while others are singing in the next room.  
.hb 3 8 (b) 
A number of song books are placed outside the door of the singing room. 
People waiting to go into their auditions choose songs to sing. 
.hb 3 8 (c) 
When the time comes, the person goes in and sings the chosen song, accompanied  
by the piano.   
The Music Director grades each person on a scale of 0-5 (0 means can't hold 
a note, 5 means must have a solo).  
Scores are kept secret, especially from the singer. 
The Music Director also makes whatever additional notes might be useful to  
the Director in casting people for singing parts.   
.hb 3 8 (d) 
Each night, the Director and Music Director get together after auditions
to talk over the notes. 
.bt 
You should try to encourage everyone to sign up for a singing audition. 

...`....


People who don't feel confident singing will try to wheedle out of it, but  
don't let them -- the Director needs to know if someone is just shy but an  
okay singer, or if that someone has such a bad voice that it's going to 
stand out in a group.   
.tp 
Try to make everyone comfortable by being as unthreatening as possible. 
Many people are scared to sing in front of others.  
Put them at their ease if you can.  
Sing along with them for a while, if that's what it takes.  
You'll have to hear them sing a few lines solo sooner or later, but you 
can get a better idea of their capabilities once they've stopped shaking.   
.tp 
It won't take long to figure out if they're good or bad...thirty seconds
should do it.   
However, you have to take time with them, regardless of what happens.   
If someone is bad, see if they can at least sing a note along with the piano.   
That's something.   
And see if they can "talk" a song, the way Rex Harrison did in My Fair Lady 
and Dr.Doolittle.   
If they can talk a song, that's a useful fact to pass on to the Director.   
.tp 
When people are auditioning, you should remember that the ultimate goal is  
to perform a song on stage. 
Therefore you should ask them to
.ul 
deliver 
their auditions pieces to the best of their abilities.  
Find out if their voice has enough volume to fill the theatre space; remind 
them of diction; see what sort of spirit they have. 
A vocal performance has to be more than just hitting the right notes at 
the right time. 
See what they're capable of and pass as much information along to the   
Director as you can.
(Note: it helps if you write down what people were wearing when they
auditioned for you -- it makes it easier for you to remember who they   
were later on.) 
.tp 
There is one other aspect of auditions in which the Music Director may be   
involved: dance auditions.  
If the Director chooses to run dance auditions, someone will have to
provide music.  
Of course, recorded music could be used, but a live pianist may be more 
suitable.   
In order to avoid surprises sprung at the last moment, talk to the Director 
and Choreographer well before auditions and ask if they will want dance music.  
If they do, you can work out with them what will be required and have it
ready when the time comes.  
.hd Rehearsals  
Music rehearsals start a day or two after the first readthrough.
The best way to arrange a music rehearsal is to talk to the Director and the
Stage Manager about the schedule.   
You give them a list of who you want to see, and they give you a schedule   
that fits in with the acting rehearsals.
For example, they may have a group of singers see you immediately before or 
after the same people rehearse a scene for the Director.
Make sure that singing rehearsals are posted along with acting rehearsals   
and try to schedule three or four days in advance.  
It is the Stage Manager's duty to arrange an appropriate rehearsal room for 
you -- the rehearsal room in Modern Languages is a nice one, as is HH180.   
.tp 
As we said before, each song should have a concept. 
Explain the concept to the people who are doing the song.   
It will make it that much more fun for them, and they may come up with good 
pieces of business to make it work better.  
.tp 
In rehearsal, pay attention to all your performers. 
Recognize when you've asked too much of the people you have, and when they  
just need a bit of time to learn.   
Also recognize when you've asked too little -- some people have the ability 
to turn a simple little number into a show-stopper if you give them the chance. 
Give it to them.
Don't push, but ask them to make it into something wonderful.   
Most people will surprise you.  
.tp 
Harmony always makes songs better.  
Some people can do it easily.   
Some people think they can do it but can't. 
Some people get confused when stronger singers are singing different parts  
in their ears.  
In small groups, it's usually better to start off in unison first and ask the   
natural harmonizers to sing the same as everybody else. 
This gives everyone a chance to learn the melody.   
When people are fairly confident about that, you can add the harmony.   
.tp 
In preparing for large choral numbers, it's better to start off with a  
smaller group first.
Suppose you are going to have three-part harmony on the opening song.   
Get together a group of nine good singers before the main rehearsal, split  
them into three groups of three, and teach them the parts.  
When it comes to the main rehearsal, split up the group into three and have 
each of the three groups learn from the people who already know the song.   e ulBy seeding the rehearsal in this way, you can get very exciting resu

By seeding the rehearsal in this way, you can get very exciting results in a
remarkably short period of time.
Note: don't expect people to know how to read music.
It seems to be a lost art.  
.tp 
As time goes on, control over music will pass from Music Director to Director.  
Once the people know their songs and are confident with them, the Director  
has to make sure that the songs are incorporated properly into the rest of  
the show.   
If the Music Director is really on top of things, he or she will have nothing   
to do the last week of rehearsals but sit in the audience and give notes.   
Of course, this seldom happens; usually you find problems and have to   
schedule additional rehearsals to patch things up.  
But you can always hope.
.tp 
Other notes: give singers time to warm up at the beginning of a music   
rehearsal.  
When people are singing different parts, put them in different corners of the   
room, at least for the first little while.  
People sing better when they're smiling -- unless the concept of the song   
calls for something very different, force the singers to smile and have fun.
Watch volume and diction.   c reYou don't get high notes by stretching (stretching j

You don't get high notes by stretching (stretching just lengthens the vocal 
chords and we all know that long strings like a bass viol play deeper than  
short strings like a violin); to get high notes, drop your chin and relax   
the larynx. 
.tp 
Always be positive throughout rehearsals.   
Like it or not, you are part of the "elite", the people who have some measure   
of authority in FASS.   
Be behind the show 100% and make sure people see it -- any bad vibes you
give off will be picked up by the cast and multiplied a hundredfold.
.hd 'During the Show'   
By showtime, the Music Director's role is mainly support (unless (s)he is   
also Pianist).  
Help the Director lead warm-ups, and encourage special vocal warm-ups for   
singers who need it.
.tp 
The Pianist has a much more important role during shows.
The Pianist is a
.ul 
performer.  
The Pianist is the first person to go onto the stage and the last person to 
leave it.   
He or she has to be performing the whole time.  
.tp 
There are lots of personal styles possible for the Pianist. 
Some of our Pianists have joked around with the audience before the show,   
while others have been quiet and invisible. 
Both extremes and anything in the middle can work, provided the Pianist never   
forgets to be part of the show. 
Like the other performers, the Pianist should wear a costume, even if the   
costume is just ordinary street clothes.
Like the other performers, the Pianist should convey a character, be it an  
unobtrusive part of the scenery or a flashy piano bar entertainer.  
Check your persona out with the Director to make sure it works with the 
rest of the show, but   
.ul 
be part of the show.
And be a responsible performer: don't upstage anyone else or do anything
that attracts attention to yourself when you aren't part of the action. 
Just watch the show...and make sure you have a smile on your face most of   
the time!   
If you don't look like you're enjoying yourself, you'll drag down the   
audience.   
.tp 
During solos, the Pianist is an accompanist.
Follow the soloist, no matter what happens -- the audience won't know   
anything is wrong unless the soloist and the piano are going in two 
different directions.   
Be a professional and try to make everything look like it was planned.  
.tp 
During group songs, the Pianist must provide a good strong beat for 
everyone to follow. 
If the entire group makes some wild deviation from what you've rehearsed,   
follow them; if only some of them go wrong, the only way they'll all get
back together again is if you give them a very clear idea of where to go.   
.tp 
Learn to play in low light. 
In many instances, the lighting design will call on you to play without 
stage lights on you.
The techies can provide you with a small lamp, but they will cover it with  
a blue gel to make its light dimmer and less conspicuous.   
Someone has gone to a lot of trouble to achieve certain lighting effects
and they don't want it spoiled by a searchlight on the piano.   
So memorize most if not all of your music and practise playing by feel  
instead of sight.   
.tp 
Sometimes FASS has material fit in between scenes to cover scene changes
and sometimes it doesn't.   
If it doesn't, you will have to come up with ditties of thirty seconds  
to a minute to fill in the gap. 
Even if there is some between-scene filler, you should have some back-up
material ready in case the scene change lasts longer than the filler.   
This can be soft anonymous music, something based on songs in the show, or  
an actual routine of some kind. 
Talk to the Director and the Musical Director and work something out.   
(Note: the Director and Technical Director may tell you that piano filler   
won't be needed because scene changes will be shorter than the filler   
that has already been planned.  
Smile and say OK and have something unobtrusive ready anyway.)  
.hd Conclusion  
A lot of the life in FASS comes from the music. 
Music stirs up energy and instills a good group feeling.
The Music Director can add immeasurably to the success of FASS through  
originality and dedication, co-operation with the Director and others,  
and giving it all you've got.   
.sq 
