


..0W.]..
fass























.so fass/1990/script/bulkmacr.t 
.bs I a:W "Intro of Course" 
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ad 
(Professor ENTERS AND GOES TO LECTERN.) 
.ch pro 
Good evening, class.    
This course is FASSical Studies, or as some of my students last year
called it: Hunks o' History.
.ex 
You all have the course outline in front of you (HOLDS UP   
PROGRAM). If you turn to page 3 you will see that 40% of
the course will be studied before the midterm and 30%   
afterwards. There is no final, and bribing the professor
is encouraged.  
.ex 
Call me old fashioned but I ask that you do not bring   
food or drinks to lectures as I find them distracting.  
The same can be said for cigarettes. Cameras and tape   
recorders are also forbidden, as the course is available
from Correspondence already and I don't want to cut down
on my royalty income.   
.ex 
This course is an examination of the creation and evolu-
tion of the University of Waterloo and its parallels with   
the evolution of western civilization, if the term  
civilization can be given to a society that includes
engineering.
.ex 
I will be making extensive use of audio-visual aids in  
teaching this course. I may also take advantage of the  
wide variety of experts on faculty by bringing in guest 
lecturers.  
.ex 
As time is short, let's get started right away, shall we?   
.es 
.bs I b:W "Intro to I:i - June Lowe"
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na lowe June~Lowe June 
.ch pro 
To combine engineering and guest lecturers  
I would like to introduce a legend from that Faculty,   
the mother of all engineers,
June Lowe.  
.ch lowe
If we are going to study the development of the university  
we must start by examining where all good universities began: engineering.  
What was man without tools? Just a huddled, starving mass of humanity.  
It took engineers to develop the tools and weapons necessary to 
catch food, to develop the wheel in order to transport  
his possesions. 
But what was man's, or should I say engineering's, first discovery? 
Let's find out shall we?
.es 
.bs I c:W "Intro of I:ii"   
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ch pro 
Thus the first of the universities was  
founded. In their early years universities were violent 
and self-serving places. "Every man for himself" was the
prevalent attitude. People thought nothing of stabbing  
colleagues in the back and taking credit for their work.
Come to think of it, not much has changed.  And it all  
seems rather silly, doesn't it, when you realize that   
university politics are so vicious because the stakes are   
so small. Now, the fighting was not restricted to within
the campus. Universities fought each other on the field 
of battle.  Again not much has changed except that the  
war is now fought on the football field.  One of the
Great Wars was fought between Troy and Athens, or as we 
know them today, Waterloo and Wilfrid Laurier.  Let us  
take a look at the causes of this epic struggle.
.es 
.bs I d:W "Intro of I:iii - John Vanderkooy"
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na st1 Student~1 Student~1 
.na st2 Student~2 Student~2 
.na sci John~Vanderkooy Vanderkooy  
.ch pro 
The Dark Ages were characterised by great ignorance and nothing very
important happening.
.ad 
(CURTAIN OPENS ON A DARK STAGE) 
.ch st1 
How many students does it take to change a light bulb?  
.ch st2 
A what? 
.ad 
(CURTAIN CLOSES)
.ch pro 
For the next lecture I would like to introduce Dr. John Vanderkooy  
from the Physics Department.
.ch sci 
Arthur C. Clarke, an author of several science type books,  
once said, "any sufficiently advanced science is indistinguishable  
from magic."
I guess this is why I was asked to give the lecture on  
Merlin, King Arthur and the Round Table.
I approached this task with trepidation until I realized
that the corollary of that statement is also true.  
In those days, science was simply sufficiently advanced magic.  
While much had been lost in the Dark Ages   
(misplaced in the dark, I suppose)  
it was all being rediscovered.  
It must have been an exciting time. 
Universities were gaining more stucture as an academic  
hierarchy developed to parallel the nobility:   
deans and professors on top, under-graduates on the bottom  
or to put it another way,   
under-graduates under graduates.
.bs I e:W "Intro of I:iv - Rota Lister" 
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na list Rota~Lister Lister 
.ch pro 
We now reach the Renaissance, the time of Guttenberg,   
the time of Shakespeare.
My next guest lecturer is discribed as 'unique' 
and 'an individual', from the department of English:
Dr. Rota Lister.
.ch list
Yes, of course, tonight we improvise.   
My old teacher at the University of Toronto,
the late Canadian guru Marshall McLuhan,
breathed hot and cool about Guttenberg and his press,   
his Galaxy. 
What a star-tossed venture! 
When I was a graduate student in his seminar at the Centre  
for Culture and Communication,  
I knew what an enviroment was!  
And an anti-enviroment! 
But now it's not nearly so clear any more.  
Was the medium really a message,
or was it just inter-galactic graffiti done by a Renaissance
buccaneers? 
Did Guttenberg reallly invent movable type or was he just   
a front for a Machiavellian plot to dislocate the monarchies
of the time, to get all those dumb plebeians to run for 
elected office? 
.ex 
But Mac, of course, knew that the real media revolution 
was an electronic one, that Marconi and Wiener and all the rest 
gave us all such a bums' rush that nowadays even a University   
campus has to have at least two hot/cool tabloids to keep us
from losing touch with the Global Village.  
So here we are, witnesses to the MacLunacy of the   
Gazette and Imprint, as we observe the commotion
in the Imprint office before they put the paper to bed  
for their Friday deadline.  
.es 
.bs I f:W "Intro of Intermission"   
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ch pro 
All right, as we are having a double lecture
tonight I think this is an appropriate time for a break.
We'll be starting again in 10 minutes. Please be prompt 
in returning.   
.es 
.bs II a:W "Intro to II:i"  
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ch pro 
Now, if we're all QUITE ready? As well as a 
place for learning, the university is a place to relax, 
to be entertained and to mature into fine upstanding
human beings. Because of this, at least one university  
set up a faculty of Human Kinetics and Leisure Studies to   
examine students at rest and students in motion, or to  
put it more succinctly, students in bed. In the 1700's  
they had the moves and didn't need the rest, as we shall
soon see.   
.es 
.bs II b:W "Intro to II:ii" 
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ch pro 
We now jump to an era when society attempted
to enforce morality on the university campus.  In the   
1920's Prohibition was declared. As we all know, when   
something is banned there is automatically a source of  
income in suppling that thing illicitly. Organised crime
set up speakeasies to quench the thirst of the public.  
The universities did not escape the gangland violence   
that soon followed. At Waterloo the speakeay was in an  
old farmhouse on a hill and the gang was called the 
Mathia. 
.es 
.bs II iii:W "Intro of II:iii - Anu Banerji"
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na anu Anu~Banerji Anu 
.ch pro 
Now, for my final guest, from Architecture, Anu Banerji.
.ch anu 
They asked me to introduce this scene because I am from 
Architecture and it takes place in front of the Davis Centre.   
Such is the logic behind this course.   
The reason I agreed to still do this introduction si that   
the scene deals with another topic close to my heart.   
Given the course the University is on, what will it be  
like in 20 years?  20 years ago this campus was a hotbed
of student radicalism.  Now it's fairly conservative.   
What's next?
Here is a peculative look at a possible future. 
.es 
