


..0W.^..
fass























.so fass/1990/script/bulkmacr.t 
.bs I a/b:T "Intro of Course and I:i - Jim Kalbfleish"  
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na kalb Jim~Kalbfleish Kalbfleish  
.ad 
(Professor ENTERS AND GOES TO LECTERN.) 
.ch pro 
Good evening, class.    
This course is FASSical Studies, or as some of my students last year
called it: Hunks o' History.
.ex 
You all have the course outline in front of you (HOLDS UP   
PROGRAM). If you turn to page 3 you will see that 40% of
the course will be studied before the midterm and 30%   
afterwards. There is no final, and bribing the professor
is encouraged.  
.ex 
Call me old fashioned but I ask that you do not bring   
food or drinks to lectures as I find them distracting.  
The same can be said for cigarettes. Cameras and tape   
recorders are also forbidden, as the course is available
from Correspondence already and I don't want to cut down
on my royalty income.   
.ex 
This course is an examination of the creation and evolu-
tion of the University of Waterloo and its parallels with   
the evolution of western civilization, if the term  
civilization can be given to a society that includes
engineering.
.ex 
I will be making extensive use of audio-visual aids in  
teaching this course. I may also take advantage of the  
wide variety of experts on faculty by bringing in guest 
lecturers.  
.ex 
As time is short, let's get started right away, shall we?   
.ex 
To start off tonight, I would like to introduce a former
Dean of Math who has gone on to bigger and better things.   
Dr. Jim Kalbfleish, Associate   
Provost.
.ch kalb
What is a University?   
There are many answers to that question.
Some say it is a place to explore man's intrest in the arts.
I beleive it is a place to develop man's intellect. 
Intelligence is one of the paradoxes of our evolution.  
Knowledge threw us out of the Garden of Eden,   
yet knowledge is what lets us enter a university.   
It seems to me that a University is a fairly contrived  
notion. 
Where did the idea of gathering learned people together 
to teach come from? 
I take you now to the dawn of man, or maybe five minutes
before dawn.
.es 
.bs I c:T "Intro of I:ii"   
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ch pro 
Thus the first of the universities was  
founded. In their early years universities were violent 
and self-serving places. "Every man for himself" was the
prevalent attitude. People thought nothing of stabbing  
colleagues in the back and taking credit for their work.
Come to think of it, not much has changed.  And it all  
seems rather silly, doesn't it, when you realize that   
university politics are so vicious because the stakes are   
so small. Now, the fighting was not restricted to within
the campus. Universities fought each other on the field 
of battle.  Again not much has changed except that the  
war is now fought on the football field.  One of the
Great Wars was fought between Troy and Athens, or as we 
know them today, Waterloo and Wilfrid Laurier.  Let us  
take a look at the causes of this epic struggle.
.es 
.bs I d:T "Intro of I:iii - Jim Gardner"
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na st1 Student~1 Student~1 
.na st2 Student~2 Student~2 
.na gard Jim~Gardner Gardner
.ch pro 
As we know the struggle has continued through the ages with Laurier usually 
coming out on top.  This year,  
however, was different as our Warriors of Waterloo won  
the fight 7-6 with a grand and glorious effort. WARRRRR-I-IORS!!!   

.ex 
The Dark Ages were characterised by great ignorance and nothing very
important happening.
.ad 
(CURTAIN OPENS ON A DARK STAGE) 
.ch st1 
How many students does it take to change a light bulb?  
.ch st2 
A what? 
.ad 
(CURTAIN CLOSES)
.ch pro 
To give the next lecture is Jim Gardner, Dean of Graduate Studies.  
.ch gard
It was during the middle ages and into the Renaissance  
that the universities adopted the structure that we see today.  
Universities were gaining more structure as an academic 
hierarchy developed to parallel the nobility.   
Deans and professors were on top, under-graduates on the bottom 
or to put it another way,   
under-graduates under graduates.
Here now, a study of the relationship between a professor,  
Merlin, and his graduate student, Arthur... 
.es 
.bs I e:T "Intro of I:iv - Rota Lister" 
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na list Rota~Lister Lister 
.ch pro 
We now reach the Renaissance, the time of Guttenberg,   
the time of Shakespeare.
My next guest lecturer is discribed as 'unique' 
and 'an individual' from the department of English: 
Dr. Rota Lister.
.ch list
Yes, of course, tonight we improvise.   

My old teacher at the University of Toronto,
the late Canadian guru Marshall McLuhan,
breathed hot and cool about Guttenberg and his press,   
his Galaxy. 
What a star-tossed venture! 
When I was a graduate student in his seminar at the Centre  
for Culture and Communication,  
I knew what an enviroment was!  
And an anti-enviroment! 
But now it's not nearly so clear any more.  
Was the medium really a message,
or was it just inter-galactic graffiti done by a Renaissance
buccaneers? 
Did Guttenberg reallly invent movable type or was he just   
a front for a Machiavellian plot to dislocate the monarchies
of the time, to get all those dumb plebeians to run for 
elected office? 
.ex 
But Mac, of course, knew that the real media revolution 
was an electronic one, that Marconi and Wiener and all the rest 
gave us all such a bums' rush that nowadays even a University   
campus has to have at least two hot/cool tabloids to keep us
from losing touch with the Global Village.  
So here we are, witnesses to the MacLunacy of the   
Gazette and Imprint, as we observe the commotion
in the Imprint office before they put the paper to bed  
for their Friday deadline.  
.es 
.bs I f:T "Intro of Intermission"   
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ch pro 
All right, as we are having a double lecture
tonight I think this is an appropriate time for a break.
We'll be starting again in 10 minutes. Please be prompt 
in returning.   
.es 
.bs II a:T "Intro of II:i - Ernie Lucy" 
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na lucy Ernie~Lucy Lucy
.ch pro 
Now, if we are all QUITE ready? 
Universities are not just a place to learn in an
academic way, they are a place to learn how to live.
I would now like to intorduce the man charged with  
this responsibility here at Waterloo, the Dean of Students, 
Ernie Lucy. 
.ch lucy
The most lasting legacy you will have when you leave
university will be the friends you made here
and the memories of the good times you had. 
Some of you will meet your future spouse;   
some of you will decide university is not for you.  
Whatever your decision, it is the university which  
gives you the opertunity to experience life on  
a bigger scale. 
If you want to see this happening, just go to the   
Campus Centre one evening and watch the people. 
Here now, the CC in the 1700's. 
.es 
.bs II b:T "Intro to II:ii" 
.na pro Professor Professor 
.ch pro 
We now jump to an era when society attempted
to enforce morality on the university campus.  In the   
1920's Prohibition was declared. As we all know, when   
something is banned there is automatically a source of  
income in suppling that thing illicitly. Organised crime
set up speakeasies to quench the thirst of the public.  
The universities did not escape the gangland violence   
that soon followed. At Waterloo the speakeay was in an  
old farmhouse on a hill and the gang was called the 
Mathia. 
.es 
.bs II c:T "Intro of II:iii - Dean Brodie"  
.na pro Professor Professor 
.na st1 Student~1 Student~1 
.na st2 Student~2 Student~2 
.na sci Dean~Brodie Dean
.ch pro 
We now come to the present day which, in my humble opinion is characterised by  
great ignorance and nothing very important happening.   
.ad 
(CURTAIN OPENS ON A DARK STAGE) 
.ch st1 
How much power does it take to change a light bulb? 
.ch st2 
A Watt! 
.ad 
(CURTAIN CLOSES)
.ch pro 
For this last lecture I would like to look at the future of universities
in general and the University of Waterloo in particular.    
In order to do this, I have asked   

the Dean of Science, Don Brodie, to address you.
.ch sci 
Good evening. While science fiction has very little to do with science, 
I have always liked to speculate on the future. 
What new advances will technology bring us? 
Will we reach the stars?
If so, will we arrive in time to appologize 
for all those reruns of "Gilligan's Island"?
Will scientists find a cheap way to turn lead into gold?
Will they tell anyone?  
The University will be affected by these discoveries, but many  
forces will remain the same, economics and politics for example.
What will the University of Waterloo be like in the years to come?  
And why am I asking so many questions?  
That's  
.ul 
your
job.
.es 
