


......
fass
























.so fass/idallen/roffinit   
.he "FASS 1978"Auditions Handout"FASS 1978" 
.fo "FASS 1978"Auditions Handout"FASS 1978" 
.h0 "What FASS Auditions REALLY are"
**** Everyone who wants a part in the play can get one! ****
.sp 
.ds 
FASS auditions are our way of helping the director find out 
what you want to do in the play, and how much, so that we   
can assign you a part you can handle. We have acting,   
singing, dancing, and technical parts of all lengths and
styles:  very very short parts for shy people, and longer   
parts for braver people. We also want to
exploit your natural talents; if you have something special 
you can do, let us know: an accent, an expression, can sing 
or dance, fencing, ballet, scuba diving, etc. We may have a 
part (or may quickly write one) which uses that talent. 
(You will recall that we found someone who could play   
bagpipes!) The object of all of this is to have FUN, onstage
and off.  Everyone gets a part - it's up to you to help us  
place you in a comfortable niche. (Someone said that FASS   
was just an excuse to have parties anyway!) 
We will sort through all your bravery and talent over the   
weekend, weighing what you want with what the script we have
written has to offer. By
.bf 
6am Monday January 9
there will be a 
character list posted just inside the stage door of the 
Theatre of the Arts which will tell you which part(s) you   
have been given. You MUST initial this list to accept you   
part before NOON TUESDAY. There will be someone in the FASS 
Office (HH 178 E) all Monday to tell you more about your
part if you are uncertain.  
.sp 
.ne4
If you are given anything more that a cameo role in the 
play, then prepare to give up an hour or two out of 90% of  
your evenings for the next month, for rehearsals.  These
start immediately   
.bf 
Tuesday January 10  
(time and place to be posted
inside the stage door when you initial to accept your part). We try to schedule rehearsals on a 
scene by scene basis, around your night classes. If you 
have many night classes, do not take a long part! Please -  
you MUST attend all rehearsals for your scene, and on time. 
Each scene, and ultimately the whole show, is a real group  
effort.  You must get to know each other's timing and   sortmannerisms. FASS sce

mannerisms. FASS scenes are not fixed, they EVOLVE during   
rehearsals - missing one may leave you clueless and ruin
things for everyone else. If time is a problem, please  
don't stay out, but take a smaller part! We are one of the  
most gregarious groups of people on campus. 
We crave participation! 
.sp 
The show is put 
on in the Theatre of the Arts, the evenings of February 1, 2, 3, and 4 (Wed 
thru Sat).  
It has been FASS tradition to hold an all-night party after the 
second Friday show, and to go to the Market in the morning for breakfast.   
We have one of the Math lounges booked for two Friday evenings  
with Bar Services, during rehearsals.   
.sp 
.ul2
p.s. After auditions tonight we have party arrangements!    
Ask us about them, and other cast parties!!!
.sp 
.bf 
Bienvenue and Welcome to FASS!  
