


........
fass























FASS!!  
.ti3
Contrary to rumours that are now circulating
on campus, we are doing our best
to cut down on the full frontal nudity and  
oral sex that were so shockingly displayed this 
year in FASS '77.   
(Those were some cast parties!) 
For those of you who missed the show because you
were off campus (which is just about all of you 
since the show was in February) FASS is 
purportedly a satirical revue written,  
produced, directed, and performed by inmates
of this fine institution.   
.ti3
At least, that's what they'd like you to believe.   
Some people say that FASS is a syndicate of 
sex-crazed Norwegian trolls pumping out 
comic material designed to subvert the masses and   
pollute our precious bodily fluids. 
Some people have stated boldly that FASS
at times resorts to even clean humour, and  
actually invites punsters to participate
in the creation of the show.
Some people say that FASS is an excuse for  
an undisciplined mob of would-be actors, most of
whom have never been on a stage before, to get  
together for parties and to fleece the public   
for funds to pay for the liquid refreshments
at such functions.  
Some people have remarked that seeing FASS, 
or being in FASS is the most fun they've had
since they gave up sticking raisins up their
noses.  
.ti3
Be that as it may, it appears that all efforts  
to discourage them have failed; FASS will   
go on again next February (when most of you 
are back on campus again, after the work-term)  
and that the theme for the show will be the 
Roaring Twenties and the Mob.   
At this point in time, it appears that it's 
going to be a battle between rival  
gangs and who will win is anyone's guess.   
Will it be the Mathia, sometimes referred to
as the Cosine Nostra?   
Will it be Elliot Mess and the Feds?
Or, like the Ford-Carter debates, will it   
be a victory for the American people?   
.ti3
You can help decide by showing up at the summer 
brainstorming session at 7:30 Tuesday,  
May 31, 1977, in the Modern Languages Faculty   
Common Room, down on the first floor near the   
coffee lounge (we like to wreck the Arts
buildings while they're all away).  
Everyone is welcome, and we expect a large  
turn-out of misfits, sexual deviants,   for avid gun enthusiasts, an

avid gun enthusiasts, and curious onlookers.
We promise that the experience will not 
be permanently debilitating in the vast 
majority of cases, and that all 
scars will be easily hidden by turtle-neck  
shirts and knee-socks.  
