


..o...l.
fass























                    RULES FOR LEXICOGAMY




NOTE:  This game is supposed to continue underneath the normal activity 
of a party, and should not take it over.


SETUP:  An even number of players are randomly paired up into partnerships  
by a referee.  Each partnership is randomly assigned a unique letter of 
the English alphabet, the partners knowing their partnership's letter   
via a letter card, but not each other's identity.  Players are not told 
which letters are being used in the game.   


GENERAL IDEA:  The object of the game is for each partnership to gain   
as many points collectively as possible.  There are two ways of doing   
this:  by the partners discovering each other, and by each partner  
independently discovering the letters of others.
     The partners may broadcast their letter in any way they like in
an attempt to attract each other, but shouldn't be so obvious that  
others will guess their letter, as this will lose them points.  There   
are immediately apparent ways of indicating your letter, and there are  
also ingenious methods.  Ideally, one should use gimmicks which will
catch the attention of someone looking for your specific letter, but
not of someone looking out for just any letter.  In looking for your
partner, keep in mind a list of ideas you've had for your letter, and   
watch for them in other people. 


MECHANICS OF THE GAME:  Each player starts with 5 tokens.  If you have  
been assigned the letter A, and believe you have found your partner,
approach him discreetly and ask "Is your letter A?"  He must answer 
truthfully.  If he responds "No," you must pay him a token.  If he  
responds "Yes", identify yourself as his partner.  ONE of you should
then discreetly take both your letter cards to the bathroom, on one 
of them write in pencil the time indicated on the clock there, clip 
them together, and drop them in the box provided.  Both of you may  
then continue to attempt to discovery of other players' letters.
     If you suspect some player of having been assigned the letter Z,   
and you wish to win a token from him, ask "Is your letter Z?"  Again,   
he must answer truthfully.  If he says yes, you win a token from him.   
If he says no, you pay him a token. 
     The game ends at some predetermined time, or when the referee finds
that all the partners have found each other, whichever comes first. 
Each partnership's final score includes the collective number of tokens 
held by both partners at the game's conclusion, and bonus points if 
they have discovered each other.  These bonus points equal 15 + x,  
where x is the number of partnerships still undiscovered at the time    
on the letter card. 


CLARIFYING POINTS:  - Obviously, a player may win a token for a 
correct guess only once from each other player. 


- However, a player may attempt any number of guesses at another's  
letter before guessing correctly.   


- A player may win tokens from both halves of another partnership.  


- Partners may both win tokens from the same player by independent  
discovery.  


- Before discovering his own partner, a player may lose a token to  
him for an incorrect guess at his letter.   
    
- After discovering his partner, a player may not exchange information  
with him regarding the letters of other players.


- After partners discover each other, both of them are still liable to  
losing tokens to other players who correctly guess their letter.


- A player does not lose a token for guessing at the letter of someone  
not even in the game.   


- A player is not allowed to deliberately indicate any letter other than
his own.


- Tokens may be borrowed from the referee when they run out.  This will 
be counted against the final score. 
