


...T...T
fass




























THE PEOPLE'S BILINGUAL YEARLY NEWSLETTER!!!!!!! 
     (or The Bloody Newsense)   
               MAY 1977 




The Purpose of this Newsletter: 
     As the purpose of this newsletter, we have chosen  
Flipper.  Flipper is not really a purpose, but rather a 
porpoise, which is close.  Come to think of it, 
Flipper was a dolphin and not a porpoise either.  Well, 
there's no use in denying it, there isn't a purpose 
at all and the rest of this is sheer trivia demanding   
your immediate attention.   




FASS Reunion:   
     What is a FASS reunion?  GOOD QUESTION!  We
were hoping you would tell us.  We were hoping you  
would tell us things like whether you like the idea,
whether you would come, and what sort of event it should
be.  We were hoping you would fill out the PARTY FORM   
and pop it in the mail just as fast as you can  
so we'll be able to start work organizing the thing.
     Although FASS has never attempted a fall   
reunion before, a number of people from productions as  
long ago as 1966 have expressed interest in showing up  
sometime for such an event.  Always eager to accommodate,   
the executive is feeling out the membership (giggle,
giggle) for their views.  If we held a successful reunion   
this fall, it is likely that reunions would continue on 
some sort of regular basis, perhaps every year, perhaps 
every five years.   
     Our tentative date this year is October Fool's 
Day (Snail's Day, OktoberFASS, etc.) Saturday,  
October 1, 1977.  This should avoid conflicts   
with Oktoberfest when we look around for party spots
to book, since Oktoberfest runs (so to speak)   
the following two weekends.  The location depends on the sort of
affair you want it to be (Grand Ball    
Room of the Waldorf Astoria or the back room at Angie's.)   
Exercise your franchise!  No, no, silly, fill out the bloody
form!!  




Money, Money, Money:
     As most of you know by now, we made a bundle on
this year's FASS show.  Ah yes, it warms my heart more  
than this golden Acapulco sunshine.... oops!  Anyway,   
our total ticket income was $3024.75.  Not bad, eh? 
(Of course, it's not bad!!)  Anyway we decided not  
to buy anything for the theatre this year (quick
Martha, get the smelling salts, the silly fool passed   
out on me!)  What we did do, however, was put the   
money away so that next year we can get something   
really spiffy for the theatre.  (Maybe we could 
get Earl come butter to replace the parquet we used.)   
So, that's what happened to the money, gang, honest.
This is Mickey Garland, Sleezie News, Acapulco. 




Urgent, Urgent Party News:  
     .... And continuing in a different vein (the last  
was too small for another needle) we bring you your 
Summer Entertainment!!!!!   
     As some of you may know, Bill (alias Dean) 
and Ellen Pearson have invited us all to their farm for 
a weekend (the fools!)   Soooooo......  
     May 28th and 29th, plan on trekking (sic) north-   
eastish for the usual excesses.  Arrivals are Saturday  
morning, leavals are Sunday evening.  This is a 
BYOB occasion, but EPF (Eat Pearson's Food).
     Prerequisites: 
         (1) Sleeping bags (don't wake them up) and 
             all the camping gear you may require.  
         (2) Any and all musical instruments, since 
             firewood is in short supply.  This includes
             spoons, kazoos, washboards, gut bass (?);  

             i.e. anything you can bang, blow, pluck,   
             finger, or fiddle with.
         (3) Eating utensils, cooking utensils, 
             drinking utensils, your own tonsils.   
     The squiggly thing on another page herein included in  
this here epistle is a map with which you will not get lost,
unless we tell you to.  
     Soooo..... lettuce turnip there, but lettuce know!!
You will notice that contained somewhere in this
verbal diatribe, there will be a rip-off-and-   
send-it-to-us form.  Do so now, 
or else.




Other Meetings Now and Then:
     Script Brainstorming Session - 
For those on campus this summer (mostly co-op kids  
who will have their chance to make fools of themselves  
when they come back here in January) another thrilling  
session of insults, insanity and sporadic flashes of
humour that might be used next year.  Anyone who can
make it is welcome (and so are the frigid and   
impotent if they're interested.)  Tuesday, May 31   
7:30 p.m., Modern Languages Faculty Common Room.


     General Meeting - To start the new school  
year off with a bang, drag all your friends out to the  
FASS general meeting - they're sure to beat you 
up!  Anyone who could possibly be interested in 
FASS .'78 will be welcome.  It is likely that a few small   
skits will be enacted for the benefit of those  
who are not sure what being a part of FASS means
(e.g. incoming frosh, people who believe they are there 
for a meeting of CUSO, and the entire crew of FASS '77, 
some of whom still do not realize that like the 
Mafia, once you're in FASS, you never leave.)  It is
also likely that some of last year's people will
be approached in the first few weeks of 
September to participate in said skits. 
And it is a dead certainty that immediately following   
the general meeting, cars will be carrying happy FASS   
78'ers to a place of celebration, rejoicing,    
and liquid uplift.  Don't miss the social event of  
the month.  Thursday, September 22, 8:00 p.m.,  
Modern Languages Faculty Common Room.   


     Scriptwriting Meetings - Beginning in late 
September, continuing until we get the exciting 
finished product sometime in early March.   


