


...]...]
fass























.so fass/idallen/roffinit   
.so roff/month  
.ix 
.fn 1   
. The one and only fass plot outline - accept no imitations.
(Unless they're funnier, in which case tell Jim about it quick.)
.en 1   
.en 
.bp 
.he "FASS"- % -"PLOT"   
.fo "^(amon) ^(day), 19^(year)"- % -"FASS PLOT" 
.h0 ACT~ONE 
.h2 Scene~1~-~Opening.  
.ti10   
Typical beer commercial, "For three years now, Rocky and
the boys have been getting together to listen to Gangbusters"   
etc.  Both gangs gathered to listen to radio.  Funny things 
on radio as they switch through the stations.  Finally, 
"Gangbusters will not be heard tonight due to refundable
federation fees.  Instead, we bring you the following special   
presentation of FASS 78!"  They turn off radio, but the 
music continues until the entire FASS company marches on stage  
singing the opening number. 
.h2 Scene~2~-~Newspaper~Office  
.ti10   
Open with Gran Flanders reading letter to Sports
writer.  It is something gruesome, as in Penthouse Forum.   
She is under the impression that she is the only one who is 
keeping the paper above water, that if it weren't for her   
column no one would read the paper, and that no one 
reads the news.  Possible joke: Gran: No one reads the  
news anymore.  Sportswriter: I read the news today.  Gran:  
Oh boy. 
.ti10   
Enter the editor and ace reporters Jimmy Olsen and  
Lois Lane.  They are talking about expose and how it should 
really boost sales of paper.  When Gran asks what   
expose, they explain that they have just announced in the   
paper that they will print an expose of gang war activity in
the city, starting the next day.  Already, the papers with  
the announcements in them are out on the streets.   
.ti10   
Enter the copy girl, saying that sales of the paper are 
great.  Editor, Jimmy, Lois and copy girl go out to 
celebrate their success, leaving the expose behind on   
the desk.  Gran rants and raves to herself Who  
do they think they are?  She folds the expose into  
a paper airplance and tosses it out the window, remarking   
that this way she stays on top of the heap. 
.ti10   
She leaves gloating.
.ti10   
Enter the gangs, backwards so that they do not notice each other.   
They begin to search opposite sides of the room for the expose, 
with many visual gags.  
.ti10   
Enter the newspaper people again, sloshed.  Gangs turn  
around, notice each other, make a mad grab for anything 
in the room that looks like an expose.          
.ti10   
Strobe light pandemonium.   
.ti10   
Return to normal lighting leaves us with disarrayed editor, Jimmy,  
Lois, Copy girl.
.ti10   
Punch line : You can't say that the janitorial staff isn't  
thorough but they look like a bunch of crooks.  
.h2 Scene~3~-~The~Police~Station
.ti10   
Desk sergeant playing mumbledy peg, four cops playing   
strip gin rummy in the background.  
.ti10   
Enter Lois and Jimmy to report the theft of the expose.  They have  
great difficulty in convincing the sergeant what they are there 
for and what they have lost.  (I still want someone to be deaf.)  Several   
times Lois makes a play for Jimmy.  At last he becomes tired with   
her, and asks the sergeant if he can charge her with rape.  She presses 
countercharges, and both are thrown in the slammer.  From the back  
we hear Lois' voice saying, "All right Jimmy, drop your charges."   
.ti10   archEnter head of the Feds who asks 

Enter head of the Feds who asks sergeant what is going  
on.  He learns that they have produced an expose and lost it.  He   
decides that they should go after the expose themselves so that the 
public does not learn of the incompetence and corruption in 
the police force.   
.h2 Scene~4~-~In~the~Movie~Studio   
.ti10   
Open with director and crew discussing budget problems in   
obtaining Giant Bees, exploding castle, guillotine with two topless 
dancers, the original Holy Grail, and worst of all  
the Tidal Wave machine which has developed a bunch of   
mechanical problems.  They agree that the worst 
problem of the movie they are about to make is that they have   
to use the friends of the gang leader who owns the studio   
as a front for his gang activities. 
.ti10   
In the background, we see the gin rummy players still stripping.
.ti10   
Enter the big boss with gang.  He listens to movie  
people for a minute, then sends them away because the boys  
need some target practice, and they're going to use the 
studio.  We learn that they are using jokes to kill people  
from their shooting instructor who gives them a pep 
talk.   
.ti10   0   Boss's nephew, Max Smart acts as mov

Boss's nephew, Max Smart acts as moving target for  
jokes until someone suggests that he show them what 
part he's taking in the new movie.  He and the boss's   
moll Farrah go off to get into costume. 
.ti10   
More target practice in which we bump off a runt.   
.ti10   
Nephew and moll do scene, Tarzan swinging into treehouse
saying, "You know Jane, It's a jungle out there" swinging   
off into something backstage with a clatter of dishes and   
things.  Really interesting sounds. 
.ti10   
Boss strokes nephew off will.   
.h2 Scene~5~-~Casino~   
.ti10   
Begin with cops downstage discussing the raid they are about to have.   
They have a new leader, and it is explained that the old one was recalled.  
Leader tells the group about the people in the casino, thereby  
introducing the members of the Casino gang, and focussing   
on the funny things they are doing, like playing roulette without   
a ball (finger pointing instead) and a one arm  
bandit that is just someone with his head in a box. 
In the corner, there are some Canteen of Canada vending machines
that are being left alone because no one takes a chance 
on those.   
.ti10   0   Naturally the gin rummy players are 

Naturally the gin rummy players are also there. 
.ti10   
Leader of gang is Mae West who wanders about customers  
propositioning them, suggesting they go upstairs etc.   
.ti10   
Leader of Feds reminds them that when the stripper Danielle 
BoomBoom takes off her sixth veil is when they begin the
raid.  Feds shout "Raid!"  All customers silent, turn to look.  
They begin to sing "Raidrops keep falling on my head."  
Mae West tells them that they should wait until after   
the lottery before they try out at amateur night.   
.ti10   
Lottery.  Everyone in audience has a number on their program.   
Number drawn is one away from everyone's number.  Spot goes 
down on palm tree sitting in the audience, shouting "I won, I won." 
(Look Dick.  Look Jane.  See Spot go down on the palm tree.)
Someone on stage points out that there's always a plant in the  
audience.   
.ti10   
Amateur night begins.  Disco, can can dancing,  
barber shop quartets, maybe even some ragtime for real if   
the pianist wants.  
.ti10   
Danielle BoomBoom comes out on stage, a guy in drag; begins 
to strip.  At crucial moment, cops shout Raid, casino patrons shout 
Raid, one cop sings Raidrops keep falling on my head and is shot.   
.ti10   
Gang member shows surprise that Danielle BoomBoom was a man.
Cameo by Fess Parker.   
.ti10   
Feds search people finding funny funny things on their  
persons (rubber chickens, zits, etc.)  They announce that   
they haven't found the expose, but they'll take eveyone 
down to the station and give the casino a thorough workover 
in the morning.  Everyone is marched out except the one 
arm bandit.  The last cop on stage pulls the handle and leaves. 
It hits the jackpot on the empty stage. 
.h2 Scene~6~-~The~Newspaper~Office  
.ti10   
Expose flies in through window.  Editor throws it out, exclaiming   
"Great Caesar's ghost, as if we don't have enough trouble with  
the expose missing and our two ace reporters, now people are goofing
off with paper airplanes."  He throws the expose out the window 
again.  
.ti10   
Phone rings.  "Collect call for who?  Anyone here know  
someone named groan slobber pant-pant?"  Copy girl says it's
for her.  She answers, immediately hangs up.  Phone rings again,
she says she's not interested, hangs up again.  Phone rings 
again, she shouts, I don't even like whipped cream, then
Oh, it's you Jimmy, where are you?  
.ti10   
Funny phone call in which Jimmy tries to explain
why they are in jail.   
.ti10   
Copy girl tells editor they are in the slammer.  He says
that it's a good thing they filed something for the expose  
for the paper that day, but that someone is going to have to
make something up in case they are in jail for longer than a
day, and they don't have anything for the day after 
tomorrow.  Copy girl is assigned to make up rumours and 
lies for the expose.  Editor leaves.
.ti10   
Copy girl goes to typewriter, begins making things  
up, gets into the swing of things, and comes up with some   
really juicy things.
.ti10   
Enter telephone man.  "I am a telephone man, I am   
not really a spy for any gang, and I don't even know wha
an expose looks like.  No sirree, I  am exactly 
what I look like, a telephone man, see on my shirt here 
it says....it says Gas Company, and that just goes to   
show you how diversified Bell is these days...." etc.   
.ti10   
He looks over her shoulder at what she is typing, reads it  
with the occasional Oh my, Gracious, Where do they find the 
poodles, etc.   
.ti10   
Enter Rocko Vaselino.  "Hi, I'm here to clean out the place.
Want to get cleaned, baby?"  Corny lines that sweep her off her feet
into his lap.   
.ti10   
Phone man calls for help, says that someone is here from the
other gang, wooing the girl.  He is told to woo her too, since  
she is clearly someone who knows something about the expose.
.ti10   
He finds a pile of books on Gran Landers desk, Dating Do's  
and Don'ts, Handyman's Guide to Handy Hands, How
to Get the Real Thing, A Don't Do it Yourself guide,
Blondes, Fast Blondes, Half-fast Blondes.  How to Picke up Women.   
Artsies, pages 32 to 45; Mathies, pages 46 to 64, Nurses, see   
Appendix.  Copy girls.  Aha!
.ti10   
He reads.  This is a surefire approach for  
copy girls who are standing up. 
.ti10   
He attempts to get her stand up off Rocky's lap, succeeds   
finally.
.ti10   
He reads, " Ask her if she'd like a seat." She sits on  
Rocky's lap.
.ti10   
He reads "Sit down beside her."  He sits on Rocky's 
lap.
.ti10   
He reads the following surefire lines.  "Can I buy you a
drink, Haven't I seen you before, what's a nice girl like   raciyou doing in a place like this, what

you doing in a place like this, what sign are you, what 
courses are you taking, are you regular, I like your shoes, 
Wanna..."   
.ti10   
She leaps into his arms and drags him under the desk.   
Rocko looks under, his eyes widen, he begins leafing
through the book.   
.h2 Scene~7~-~The~Movie~Studio  
.ti10   
The extras are on the stage making crowd sounds, perhaps
practicing their rhubarbs, or Arts Theatre Ticket Pickup Parking
for Patrons Only.  Gang slinks on.  Mae West tells the boys to get  
rid of them, and so they bring on the Silent Joke.  It is   
on placards, and the extras read them dutifully.  When the last 
one has been seen, someone from the gang, shouts, "The Brick!"  
and the extras die quickly.  They are dragged off while Mae explains
that her boys are to take the place of the extras so that   
they can poke around the studios looking for an expose  
without attracting undue attention. 
.ti10   
Director comes on stage, tells gangsters to go down 
to wardrobe and get ready, because they are ready to start  
shooting the Greek love scene.  
.ti10   
The clapboard man comes out and says wearily, "Tarzan meets 
Luke Skywalker in the Sherwood Forest and manages to save   
Lassie from the Giant Bees, the Tidal Wave, the Burning 
of Atlanta, and Smersh, not necessarily in that order with  
the help of Sherlock Holmes, Gene Autry, and Donald 
Duck.  Part II.  Scene Six, Take thirty-seven."  He collapses   
in a heap after clicking the board.  The scene, between 
Farrah and a stuck-up actor as a Greek god lasts two
seconds, before the director shouts "Cut."  We go   
through the title several more times with several more cuts,
with the clapboard man getting more and more tired as we
go on.  
.ti10   
They come to the line finally, where the God says,  
"And I could summon a hundred wood-nymphs to do thee
honour."  Enter gangsters as wood-nymphs, dancing   
clumsily.  They bounce all over the stage, tromp
on feet, knock over scenery as the director shouts, 
"This is great, this is art, keep filming." 
.ti10   
Schmuck runs on stage, shouting that the Tidal  
Wave generator is out of control, and they can't hold it
back long.  They keep filming, the ominous  
gurgling from the side of the stage gets louder and louder. 
The director urges everyone to get back into the center of  
the stage, but everyone is at the side, looking anxiously   
in the direction of the Tidal wave.  Several crewmembers
run across the stage screaming.  Lights out.  Sound of  
rushing water.  
.ti10   
Lights back up, on drenched clapboard man.  He claps
board and falls backwards in a dead faint.  
.bp 
.h0 ACT~TWO 
.h2 Scene~1~-~Split-Stage   
.ti10   
Gangsters are drying out their ears.  The airplane flies
up from the vom.  "I wish I had my hands on that expose."  They 
throw the airplane back and forth between gangs, and the
conversations interlock.  Both gangs decide that the
only way they're going to find out what is in the expose is 
to break Jimmy and Lois out of jail and interrogate them.   
They send out their best men to do so.  
.h2 Scene~2~-~The~Jail  
.ti10   
Rowdy crew.  People yelling, screaming, drunks muttering to 
themselves, The drunker I stand here, the longer I get; Starkle 
Starkle Little Twink, etc.  Someone with Father Raper on his
tee-shirt accosts a kid sitting on a bench.   "Hey kid, what
did you get?  I didn't get nothing, I had to pay fifty dollars  
and pick up the garbage.  What are you in here for kid? 

...]...]
fass



Littering.  (They all back away from him.)  And creating a  
nuisance.  (They all gather around him.  Then a voice comes 
up from the vom) Guthrie!  Come here.  (He disappears.) 
.ti10   
Jimmy and Lois are sitting beside an old man who has a  
dead dog on the end of the leash.  "What's your name old-timer?"
Bojangles.  Want to see my dog do  a trick?  Play dead, Rover.  
That's enough now boy.  Stop it, you damned idiot.  (Hits dog   
with a stick.) That'll learn him - he's just stubborn sometimes.
.ti10   
Kidnappers are thrown in from the vom, one a drink, one 
a pervert in a rain coat.  They approach Jimmy  
and Lois, drunk to Lois, pervert to Jimmy.  They run away from  
them.  The two kidnappers try to opposite approach.  Pervert
explains to Lois that he is trying to get her out of jail,  
while she tries to get his coat off.  The two kidnappers
explain that at one time the Count of Montie Crisco 
was trapped in the very same cell and escaped by digging a  
tunnel.  Actually eating his way out.  And all the dirt came
back except for one teaspoonful.  They  
chuck Jimmy and Lois down the tunnel and as they go to get out  
themselves, they notice each other. 
.ti10   ck a"This tunnel

"This tunnel's not big enough for the both of us."  They draw   
back into a typical western type shoot-out, with puns.  Many
bad jokes.  "I've heard it."  Limericks.  They continue 
until they are shot by the gin rummy players who
have been busy playing in the corner.   
.ti10   
Black out, followed by a quick scene of Lois and Jimmy  
surfacing from the tunnel.  Lois is wearing Jimmy's 
clothes and he is in hers, looking very tired.  
The two gangs come running out of hiding, grab one each and 
run again.  
.h2 Scene~3~-~Newspaper~Office  
.ti10   
Editor comes in, shouts "Is anybody home?"  Paper airplane  
flies in through window, he throws it out again.    
.ti10   
Copy girl and snitches surface from beneath the 
desk.  Telephone man and Rocko immediately try to look as if
they are doing things around the office.  Editor asks the   
copy girl how she is coming along, and she tells him that   
she's doing great.  Editor leaves.  
.ti10   
She complains that she hasn't got anything done, and then   
says she has a brain storm about how she can get the
expose done.  "I've heard that given time six monkeys at
six typewriters could produce all the books in the London   s tupubl

public library.  Either London, or Etobicoke, I forget which.   
I'll just get some monkeys - they shouldn't take any
time at all to dash off a little expose."  She phones the   
UW psych department for the monkeys.  She is told to take   
the bells off the typewriters or they'll drool all over the keys.   
They will send the monkeys right over.  
.ti10   
Copy girl asks gang spies what they are going to
do while they wait for the monkeys.  Spies groan.  She  
says she is going out to see editor, to see if he'll give   
her a raise.  While she is gone, the gang members taunt 
each other by singing Anything you can do, I can do better. 
.ti10   
Copy girl returns saying that the delivery men  
are here with the monkeys.  Close with the sound of 
"Here we come...walking down the street..." coming out of   
the vom.
.h2 Scene~4~-~The~Acme~Interrogation~Agency 
.ti10   
The two gangs dump their kidnappees at the Acme 
Interrogation Agency to be interrogated.  (What else
would they do at the AIA?)  This scene has not been 
completely planned yet.  One would imagine that 
the interrogators will be strict Nazis, although it would   writbe interesting if one were a Nazi and the other was Ethe

be interesting if one were a Nazi and the other was Ethel   
Propylene.  Another interesting thing to do with this scene 
would be to do it in song, harmony, perhaps to Heart and
Soul.  This is also a good place for the Chinese Pun torture
in which a joke is said one word at a time, while the victim
screams.  Lastly, this is the place where all the fans  
of the Prisoner can work in all their favourite lines.  
"We want information.""You won't get it.""By hook   
or by crook we will." They bring out a huge meathook and
a shepherd's crook.  (Just kidding, Mike.)  
.h2 Scene~5~-~The~Newspaper~Office  
.ti10   
In this scene, we begin with the paper airplane 
flying through the window and landing on the floor.     
Copy girl is busily reading the work of the monkeys "The quality
of mercy is not strain'd" "Call me Ishmael!" "Slowly I slid the 
diaphanous folds from the milky white skin of her   
shoulders..."  etc.  Eventually, seeing the expose on the floor, copy   
girl picks it up.  Snitches are lying on the floor exhausted.   
"This is an interesting design.  Golly Gosh, it's   
the expose!"
.ti10   
"The expose?"  Then we don't need to interrogate Jimmy  
any more.   
.ti10   Ethe

Or Lois.
.ti10   
Copy girl finds out from the snitches that Jimmy and Lois   
are at the AIA.  She calls cops to meet her there   
as soon as possible.  Snitches say that they'd better tell  
their gangs that the cops are on the way.  Copy girl heads  
out with editor.
.ti10   
This scene has not been fully detailed. 
.h2 Scene~6~-~Gala~Finale   
.ti10   
At the AIA.  Everyone and their uncle are there.  A few 
minutes of gangs running from other gangs, individual members   
falling in with each other.  Every gang splits up, cops 
split up, newspaper people split up, and the stage is filled
with confusion, sight gags, all the usual fare.  This is where  
we can have people coming out of th trap door, in great numbers 
if need be, and all the rest of the stuff that we haven't   
used yet.  Jimmy and Lois escape with the help of the copy  
girl, they are caught again three or four times, and so on. 
.ti10   
The end comes when everyone ends up on the stage together,  
including the movie people, and anyone else who wants to
be there.  They decide to read what is in the   
expose just to see what they have been chasing  
after.  Instead of the expose, the copy girl has brought along  
something that the monkeys have written.    
They have written the ultimate joke which kills everyone on stage.  
THE END 
.bp 
.so fass/chars  
