


........






















.so roff/month  
.an (manu) 1
.so expl/../macr.r  
.ix 
.so roff/month  
.an (manu) 1
.so expl/../macr.r  
.sp 8   
.ce 2   
The F.A.S.S. Theatre Company
.sp 4   
Principles and Guidelines   
.sp 30  
Prepared: ^(amon), 19^(year)
.pa 1   
.he 'F.A.S.S.'- % -'Principles and Guidelines'  
.af % i 
.sp 
.ce 
Table of Contents   
.sp 
.mg 
     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
.nf 
.ta 60R 
.en 
.he 'F.A.S.S.'- % -'Principles and Guidelines'  
.fo ''^(amon), 19^(year)''  
.ds 
.se 1.0 INTRODUCTION Introduction   
The principles and guidelines set down in this document have
been prepared in order to make F.A.S.S. a success and enjoyable 
time for everyone involved. 
Some of the precepts discussed below are simply common sense;   
some concern themselves with the various aspects of dealing with
University administrative departments;  
and some are simply outgrowths of that nebulous but important   
entity known as "F.A.S.S. Tradition".   
.tp 
We wish to stress that these are simply guidelines, not "laws". 
The circumstances of putting on F.A.S.S. will change from year to year, 
and there may sometimes be good reasons for ignoring some of the
suggestions given below.
As time goes on, the F.A.S.S. Committee may also wish to modify some
of these principles and guidelines because of changes in the
University environment or simply because better ways of doing   
things have been found. 
However, we hope that future F.A.S.S. personnel will not ignore 
or overrule what is written here without first giving serious   
thought to the matter.  
These policies are the result of many years of experience   
working with F.A.S.S., and as such they can be of immense help in seeing
that F.A.S.S. continues to enjoy the success it has earned since its inception. 
.se 2.0 'CARE AND HANDLING OF THIS DOCUMENT' Care~and~Handling~of~this~Document 
Since this document is expected to evolve with time, it will no 
doubt be superseded by future Principles and Guidelines drafts. 
However, in the interests of preserving information which might 
become pertinent again at some time in the future, the Secretary
should preserve copies of   
.ul 
all 
drafts of this document.
.tp 
Changes may be made by the President in conjunction with the
members of the Executive and anyone else who might be useful
in an advisory capacity.
People making changes in this handbook should bear in mind two  
important principles:   
.hb 3 8 (1) 
The Constitution gives the "laws" of F.A.S.S.; the Principles   
and Guidelines Handbook should give the spirit. 
This is not the place to be dogmatic.   
This is a place to give important details, things to think about,   
and points to be observed in the interests of keeping F.A.S.S. fun. 
.hb 3 8 (2) 
This handbook should be kept complete and up to date.   
Ideally it should be possible for complete strangers to pick up this
document and recreate F.A.S.S. in all its glory.
These Principles and Guidelines are intended to safeguard F.A.S.S.'s future 
as well as its present. 
.bl 
.se 3.0 'CARE AND HANDLING OF PERSONNEL' Care~and~Handling~of~Personnel 
F.A.S.S. can only continue to operate if it has a large number of   
willing volunteer workers.  
Working with volunteers forces those who are leaders in F.A.S.S. to 
pay attention to several basic issues.  
.oc 'Work vs. Play' 
There is no ready answer to the question of whether F.A.S.S. is primarily   
designed for social get-togethers or the business of putting on a show. 
The important thing is that there must be a balance between the two.
Too much emphasis on parties and those who are serious about putting
on the show may be alienated; too much emphasis on business, and no one 
will enjoy themselves at all.   
.oc 'Commands vs. Requests' 
Don't tell, ask.
.oc 'Responsibility vs. Power'  
Official positions in F.A.S.S. are  
.ul 
responsibilities.   
Naturally they are accompanied with a certain amount of authority,  
but power-tripping in any position leads to trouble.
.oc 'Involvement vs. Attendance'
People should care about F.A.S.S.; they should be involved with the 
group, not just hangers on. 
In connection with this, experienced F.A.S.S. personnel should do their 
best to get newcomers involved in more than a minimal way.  
We must train new blood so that there will be a constant in-flow
of new energy, ideas, and enthusiasm.   
.oc 'Cast vs. Crew' 
Historically there has always been a lack of contact between those  
on stage and those behind the scenes.   
Every member of F.A.S.S. is important.  

Those in positions of responsibility should make sure that no portion   
of the F.A.S.S. Company feels like second class citizens.   
.se 4.0 'FINDING THE RIGHT COMMITTEE' Finding~the~Right~Committee   
One of the most important processes in F.A.S.S. is  
choosing the F.A.S.S. Committee.
The Committee must always have new blood on it to avoid stagnation; at  
the same time, there is obviously a need for people with    
experience, especially in such positions as Head Scriptwriter and   
Technical Director. 
Balancing these two factors is always going to be difficult.
It can be made easier, though, if the Committee does everything it can  
to find out whom they have to work with and to encourage people who seem
to have potential.  
.se 4.1 'THE CLOSING FORM' The~Closing~Form 
The closing form is one way to find out who's interested
in working on the Committee.
It is also a good way of gathering suggestions for improving F.A.S.S..  
The closing form is really a type of opinion poll filled out by the membership  
each year at the end of the show.   
.tp 
We suggest that the form be passed out between Friday night shows   
and collected the same night or on the Saturday.
The form should ask for improvement suggestions in several areas,   
e.g. publicity, social activities, conduct of rehearsals, conduct of shows, 
relations between cast and crew, relations between Committee members and
the company at large, comments on technical facilities and needs, and so on.
This form is also a good place to get suggestions for the following 
year's theme.   
.tp 
The second important function of the form is to find out who is 
interested in being on the Committee in the following year. 
Thus the form should ask a question like
.to 6   
Are you interested in any of the following jobs?
   Director   ___   
   Producer   ___   
   President  ___   
      etc.  
.tn 
Anyone who indicates an interest should be approached by a member   
of the Committee and told more about what the job entails.  
Committee members should actively encourage people to seek F.A.S.S. positions.  
.tp 
It should be made clear that this indication of interest is NOT 
a firm commitment.  
Persons wishing to apply for appointed positions must still write individual
applications and persons wishing to fill elected positions must still   
be nominated at the F.A.S.S. Annual Meeting.
At the same time, the closing form gives some immediate indication of   
who is interested in applying and who wants to be nominated.
If it appears, for example, that no one is interested in being Producer,
the Committee can begin using some gentle persuasion on suitable
people to see if good candidates can be convinced to apply. 
At the Annual Meeting, individual Committee members may also choose to  
nominate people for positions they have said they were interested in;   
with a bit of luck, this informal procedure will work better than a formal  
"nominating committee" or a haphazard "nominate-everyone-in-the-room" approach. 
.se 4.2 'THE APPLICATION LETTER' The~Application~Letter 
Applicants for the positions of Producer, Director, Head Scriptwriter,  
and Technical Director must submit a letter of application to the Committee.
At one time, we considered having a formal "application form" that all  
applicants would have to fill out; however, such rigidity seems contrary
to the friendly spirit of F.A.S.S.. 
Thus applicants may submit their applications in whatever written form  
they choose, be it humourous, straightforward, or bizarre.  
.tp 
Despite this informality however, application letters should include a  
variety of information about the applicant in order that the Committee  
has everything it needs to make its decision.   
Thus the Committee must see to it that potential applicants are given   
a list of the information that it wants included in the application letter. 
This kind of application guideline will help both the applicants
and the people who must choose between applicants.  
.tp 
Below we list some of the items that we feel are important in an
application letter. 
Naturally each year's Committee should add to this list if other
important considerations arise. 
.to 
Applicant's name, local address, permanent address  
Past experience in F.A.S.S. 
Past experience in direction, production, etc.  
Past experience in related fields   
Past leadership experience  
Whether or not in co-op 
Whether next year's schedule is likely to   
   be busy during fall and F.A.S.S. 
How many more years on campus?  
Specialized knowledge that will be of use   
   (e.g. computer experience for Scriptwriter)  
A description of the way he or she will approach
   the job  
Other comments on F.A.S.S., life, etc.  
.tn 
.se 4.3 'JOINT APPLICATIONS' Joint~Applications 
In the past, F.A.S.S. has allowed people to apply for positions jointly.
Thus we have had co-scriptwriters, co-producers, co-tech directors, and so on.  
Many people who don't want to take total responsibility for a particular
job in F.A.S.S. are willing to share it with one or two other people.   
Appointed F.A.S.S. positions take a good deal of work and often people  
feel that they just don't have the time to do everything themselves;
they want another person working with them. 
.tp 
While we understand such feelings, we must point out that there tend to 
be a good many problems when authority and responsibility for a given   
area are split between several people.  
When there is no final arbiter, there is no good way of resolving the   
inevitable disagreements.   
The division of labour scarcely ever pleases everbody involved -- one   
co-worker may resent another "not doing enough work", the other may 
resent the first for "taking everything on himself".
There are many potentially unpleasant situations that may arise in such cases.  
.tp 
Thus we recommend that the Committee avoid making co-appointments unless
there is some overwhelming reason for doing so (e.g. nobody else applied).  
If some people are worried that they won't be able to do everything by  
themselves, point out that they aren't supposed to do everything by 
themselves. 
All appointed members of the F.A.S.S. Committee are supposed to select  
a group of people to work under them.   
There is really no point in making co-appointments when the same position   
can be filled by one person who knows how to delegate work to   
responsible subordinates.   
.se 5.0 'CONSTITUTIONAL COMMENTARY' Constitutional~Commentary   
In this section, we will discuss various points about the Constitution, 
explaining some points in detail and telling why others were included.  
.se 5.1 'THE PREAMBLE' The~Preamble 
F.A.S.S. stands for Faculty, Administration, Staff, and Students, but   
nowhere does it say that F.A.S.S. is restricted to these people.
In particular, alumni have frequently played a strong role in F.A.S.S.  
They should not be forgotten.   
.tp 
Of recent years, the number of active Faculty and Administration people 
in F.A.S.S. has decreased.  
A number of attempts have been made to encourage Faculty and Administration 
to help with F.A.S.S. but these have not had very positive results. 
The only advice we can give right now is to keep trying; the presence   
of more senior people in F.A.S.S. can help greatly. 
.se 5.2 'THE F.A.S.S. COMMITTEE' The~F.A.S.S.~Committee 
Article two, section (10) (b) notes that the offices of Producer, Director, 
Tech Director, Head Scriptwriter, and Treasurer are appointed at a meeting  
of the F.A.S.S. Committee.  
The selection process should use a secret ballot.   
If there are more than two applicants for a position, several ballots   
should be taken, each time eliminating the applicant(s) with the least  
number of votes, until one applicant obtains a clear majority.  
.tp 
Section (11) (c) (iv) needs some background to justify it.  
Several years ago, the Director who had been appointed in March failed to   
reappear on campus in the fall. 
No one knew where he was and no one knew if he was going to be available
to direct in January.   
It wasn't until after Christmas that someone managed to contact him, and
that was only through a chance meeting on the street.   
As it turned out, he had no intention of returning to Waterloo and was  
uninterested in directing the show. 

There was a mad scramble to find a suitable substitute at the last moment.  
.tp 
Consequently, it was made mandatory for all members of the Committee to 
notify F.A.S.S. in the fall that they are still alive and eager to fulfill  
their responsibilities. 
It is not necessary for a member to be on campus in the fall; all that is   
required is written or verbal notification of one's accessibility.  
If someone does vanish, this clause gives the other members of the  
Committee the right to replace the missing person in reasonable time.   
.bt 
Section (13) (h) gives the Committee the right to overrule MAJOR decisions  
of F.A.S.S. personnel.  
This should be used with discretion.
Meddling with the decisions of individuals should only take place in dire   
circumstances.  
.bt 
The F.A.S.S. Committee generally meets five times a year
(although some years may require more or less). 
Beginning at the Annual Meeting, the following Committee meetings are   
usually required:   
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (1) 
Soon after the Annual Meeting to discuss the financial status of
the previous year's F.A.S.S. and to set a budget for the coming year's show.

........


This meeting also decides what to do with the profits from the previous 
year's show.
Generally, there is also some discussion about what activities should   
take place in the summer.   
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (2) 
Sometime early in the summer, there should be a meeting to co-ordinate  
summer activities and to plan for the fall. 
Early fall activities such as Orientation projects and the General Meeting  
should begin planning at this time. 
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (3) 
Sometime in late summer or early fall, there should be a meeting to 
finalize plans about Orientation and the General meeting.   
This is also a good time to begin discussion on Fall projects (parties, 
a coffee house, etc.).  
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (4) 
In late fall, a meeting to keep people informed on the state of the show
is often useful.
This might also be held in the first week of January.   
.bl 
.hi 3 8 (5) 
After the show, the Committee must meet to appoint the Producer, Director,  
Tech Director, Head Scriptwriter, and Treasurer for the next year.  
This is a long meeting, closed to the general membership.   
Applicants for the various positions are invited to the meeting, but they   ultywill naturally be asked to leave during 

will naturally be asked to leave during the actual voting.  
.bt 
In addition to these, other meetings may become necessary throughout the
year.   
Because the F.A.S.S. Committee is such a large body (17 people plus 
Honourary Members), it is difficult to hold quick meetings on short notice. 
If decisions have to be made quickly (and of course, they shouldn't),   
the matter is usually presented to the Executive.   
.se 5.3 'THE F.A.S.S. EXECUTIVE' The~F.A.S.S.~Executive 
The Executive seldom holds formal meetings (at least, this has been true
in the past).   
As was noted in the last section, the Executive is usually asked to make
spur of the moment decisions which are too important to be made by a single 
person. 
.se 5.4 'RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS' Responsibilities~of~Individual~Members 
In this section, we will deal with the responsibilities of individual members   
of the F.A.S.S. Committee as well as the duties of other important  
non-Committee positions.
.se 5.4.1 'THE PRESIDENT' The~President 
There is a fine line between overseeing others' work and interfering with it.   
The President must walk that line.  
.tp 
The President calls all the normal meetings of the Committee that were  
outlined in Section 5.2.
The President should also feel free to call meetings of other groups if 
he or she feels it is necessary.
For example, the Director, the Stage Manager, the Tech Director, and Producer   
must communicate closely throughout the run of rehearsals and the show. 
The President should make sure that these people are meeting together   
regularly (and the President should attend such meetings).  
.tp 
More than anything else, it is the President's duty to make sure that   
everyone is talking to everyone else.   
Nothing endangers the success and good feeling of a show more than lack 
of communication.   
The President must know what is going on and must make sure that others know
too.
.se 5.4.1.1 'THE GENERAL MEETING' The~General~Meeting   
The President organizes and hosts the General Meeting.  
This meeting is held in the fall to drum up new recruits for F.A.S.S. and   
to re-establish contact with old members.   
It is usually held the second or third week in September (the earlier it
is, the sooner the Head Scriptwriter can organize the people who will be
writing the script).
.tp 
The General Meeting is one of the first chances for the new members of  
the Committee to practise their responsibilities.   
The Vice President is in charge of organizing the social aspects of 
the evening.
The Producer should book the room (in co-operation with the Vice President) 
and see that the Meeting is properly advertised.
The Secretary should make sure that some method is organized to obtain  
names and addresses of the people who attend the meeting (usually sign-up   
sheets).
.tp 
It is traditional for the meeting to have a skit which reflects 
the current year's F.A.S.S. or previous years.  
This skit is written under the direction of the Head Scriptwriter and   
directed by the Director.   
It is seldom ambitious, but it should make a good impression on first time  
people. 
.tp 
The President hosts the night, introducing the members of the   
F.A.S.S. Committee and explaining what F.A.S.S. is (if that's possible).
.se 5.4.1.2 'THE ANNUAL MEETING' The~Annual~Meeting 
At the other end of the year is the Annual Meeting, held sometime in
early March.
This too is organized and hosted by the President.  
.tp 
The Annual Meeting is much more business-like than the General Meeting. 
Its business is the election of officers for F.A.S.S. and the selection 
of a theme for the next year's show.
Some social activities may be connected with the evening, but these are 
usually on a fairly small scale.
.tp 
The election of officers may be done either by show of hands or secret  
ballot (show of hands has usually been used in the past for the sake of 
convenience).   
We have found it useful to hold these elections in random order.
This reduces the problem of people holding off on one position when they
want to run for another.
.tp 
It is traditional for one year's Committee to step down as soon as the  
next year's Committee has been elected. 
Thus the new President chairs the meeting once the elections are over.  
.tp 
The process of selecting the next year's theme is usually superintended 
by the next year's Head Scriptwriter.   
It is helpful for the old Head Scriptwriter to call a meeting shortly   
before the Annual Meeting in order to prepare a list of five or six 
possible themes for the Annual Meeting to choose from.  
Naturally other themes may be suggested at the Annual Meeting, but a
small number of topics whose possibilities have been thought out will   
make a good base from which to work.
Anything to avoid theme debates that go on for hours... 
.tp 
The Annual Meeting is also the time for the public announcement of who  
has been appointed to the positions of Producer, Director, Tech Director,   
Head Scriptwriter, and Treasurer.   
.se 5.4.1.3 'OTHER HINTS FOR PRESIDENTS' Other~Hints~for~Presidents 
Delegate!   
.tp 
The President is in charge of collecting applications for the various   
appointed offices.  
This may mean some arm-twisting if suitable candidates don't come   
forward immediately.
.tp 
The President of one year books the theatre for the next year.  
Theatre bookings should be made at least a year in advance, so the President
should book the theatre while the current year's show is still in production.   
.tp 
The keys to the F.A.S.S. office are signed out in the President's name. 
Therefore, the old President should collect all the keys from those who 
have them and arrange to go to Key Control with the new President so that   
the keys may be signed over.
Key Control will NOT sign the keys over to the new President until  
all the keys are physically there in front of their noses.  
.tp 
Keys to the office are usually held by the  
.to 
President           Vice President  
Producer            Director
Treasurer           Head Scriptwriter   
.tn 
The Head Scriptwriter's key is given to the Tech Director in January.   
.tp 
The President should arrange for someone to visit the F.A.S.S. office once a
week or so to pick up mail. 
.tp 
The President should back up the Treasurer. 
Other members of the Committee frequently view the Treasurer as someone 
who exists only to make life difficult. 
It is up to the President to make sure that the Treasurer has some support  
in the face of such opposition. 
.tp 
It is the privilege of the President to buy tokens of recognition for   
those who have made great contributions to F.A.S.S. 
An appropriate amount of money should be budgeted for this purpose as   
the President's discretionary fund. 
Significant gifts are usually bought for the Producer, Director, Tech   
Director, Head Scriptwriter, and Stage Manager. 
Smaller items are frequently given to others, e.g. Music Director,  
Vice President, Treasurer, and people who have helped with the show above   

and beyond the call of duty.
.se 5.4.2 'VICE PRESIDENT' Vice~President   
The Vice President's most important job is taking care of the social
aspects of F.A.S.S. 
The type of social activities should vary; no one wants the same sort of
parties every time F.A.S.S. gets together.  
.tp 
The problem is that a "standard" sort of party is much easier to organize   
than anything more ambitious.   
It is certainly possible to poll the cast and crew for ideas, but for some  
reason good suggestions are hard to come by.
The Vice President just has to keep trying and to use a little originality. 
.tp 
Create a committee of people to help out.   
The V.P. can't do everything alone. 
It helps for someone on the Vice committee to have a car.   
.tp 
In 1981, the Coffee House held in the fall was financed as part of the  
Vice President's budget.
This worked out fairly well, but future Committees may decide to do things  
differently, if the Coffee House is to become an annual event.  
.tp 
A general break-down of parties:
.hb 3 8 (1) 
Something in the summer, usually a camping weekend. 
This must be planned over a month in advance, simply because of the 
difficulties in contacting off-campus members of F.A.S.S. and getting   
back responses (so you can plan how much supplies to buy).  
In the past, F.A.S.S. buys a goodly supply of food and charges people who   
come to the weekend enough to recover a good percentage of the cost.
.tp 8   
Summer barbecues (Bring your own meat) have also been popular, especially   
with those who are around town throughout the summer.   
Other summer activities include regular frisbee games out on the lawn   
between Biology and the Math building.  
.hb 3 8 (2) 
The Vice President has a big role to play in organizing the General 
Meeting in the fall.
This is the first time many people are exposed to F.A.S.S. and they 
should have a good time.
The various licensed lounges on campus have been popular for this purpose.  
They are:   
.to 12  
Math Building 5th Floor Lounge, MC 5136 
Psychology Building Lounge  
Humanities Grad Lounge  
.tn 8   
While we are listing licensed places on campus, we should mention the   
Faculty Club and the Grad Club, though these are not usually suitable   
for a crowd the size of the General Meeting (usually in excess of 120 people).  
.hb 3 8 (3) 
Something else in th

Something else in the fall. 
In the past we have had roller skating parties, hayrides, a "Beatles Theme  
Party" and so on.   
Some ideas work better than others. 
.hb 3 8 (4) 
There is often some sort of get together after each night of auditions  
in January. 
This can be along the lines of going to the Grad Club or something else,
but it should be close to campus.   
Remember that at this point you have a lot of people who are going to be
too shy to mingle, so you don't want to ask too much of them.   
People are more likely to tag along with a crowd going to the CC Pub
than wander the streets of Waterloo to get to a private house.  
.hb 3 8 (5) 
Most weekends during rehearsals there is at least one party.
In the past, we have booked some place on campus for a rehearsal/party  
on one of the Friday nights close to the show.  
.hb 3 8 (6) 
The tech people frequently get together for breakfast together before   
the tech rehearsals.
Similarly, the cast often gets together for breakfast on the morning of 
the Sunday tech rehearsal.  
This doesn't take much preparation, but it should be publicized and the 
restaurants involved should be warned that they will be invaded by large
numbers of people.  
.hb 3 8 (7) 
The four nights of the show usually have parties to allow people the chance 
to wind down.   
The Wednesday and Thursday parties tend to be smaller than the Friday   
one for obvious reasons, but all are well-attended. 
The Saturday night party is traditionally somewhat dressier than
other parties.  
It is at this party that awards of various types are given out by the   
President.  
.tp 8   
Finding a place for the Saturday party is one of the toughest problems  
the V.P. faces. 
Because it cannot begin until the show has been struck, it usually doesn't  
get started until around one o'clock.   
This implies that it has to be held in a "private residence".   
Certain party rooms in the Villages are considered private for these
purposes, and they can be booked if F.A.S.S. has someone with influence 
at the Villages.
Hammar House has also been willing to put up with us in the past.   
If such places around campus cannot be booked, you have to start twisting   
arms for people who own houses. 
.hb 3 8 (8) 
There are good excuses for parties after F.A.S.S.   
If the show has been video-taped, people will want a party where they    in can watch the ta

can watch the tapes.
The Annual meeting is a natural excuse for some sort of social occasion.
This is a chance for the V.P. to use up what's left of his/her budget.  
.bt 
The V.P. should make sure that people are informed of parties well in advance.  
The Producer can help with publicity.   
During the run of the show, make sure that BOTH cast and crew are told of   
all social plans -- there is always the danger of talking to one group  
and missing the other.  
.tp 
Do what you can for the writers.
They're isolated because their work is done in fall when parties are few
and far between.
It is a friendly gesture to arrange with the Head Scriptwriter for  
a trip over to the Grad Club, or to show up at a writers' meeting with  
pop and munchies.   
.se 5.4.3 'THE SECRETARY' The~Secretary 
The Secretary has to keep good minutes. 
The President will run Committee meetings informally if possible.   
The Secretary must make sure that the informality does not lead to  
total vagueness.
.tp 
When a motion is put before the Committee, pin down the wording before  
it goes to a vote.  
Write up the minutes and provide a copy to any Committee member who 
requests them.  
.tp 

........


If you have computer experience, it is useful to keep the minutes on
the F.A.S.S. Honeywell account. 
This account has been used for many other secretarial functions too.
The MAIL system provides convenient access to a segment of the  
F.A.S.S. membership; do not by any means ignore the rest of F.A.S.S. but
do not ignore the tools available either.   
The computer provides one of the easiest ways to maintain complete  
address lists for all F.A.S.S. members. 
If you do not have any Honeywell experience, an hour or two would be a  
good long range investment. 
.tp 
Since the Secretary is in charge of keeping address lists, we might as  
well mention our policy in connection with these lists. 
The F.A.S.S. Committee is provided with address sheets. 
We do not give out addresses to people who ask for them -- if someone   
wishes to contact a F.A.S.S. member, take a message and pass it on to   
the member yourself.
Many people are sensitive about phone numbers, etc. and the Committee   
should respect this.
.se 5.4.4 'THE TREASURER' The~Treasurer 
The overall duty of the F.A.S.S. Treasurer is to act as a watch-dog on  
the F.A.S.S. budgets and accounts.  
.hb 3 8 (a) 
Keep all the books up to date.  
.hb 3 8 (b) 
Receive and maintain all receipts and bank statements.  
.hb 3 8 (c) 
Advise the appropriate individuals of the status of their budgets.  
.hb 3 8 (d) 
Make recommendations to the Committee as you see fit, in regard to  
financial matters.  
.hb 3 8 (e) 
Draw up a tentative budget for the forthcoming year and present it to   
the Committee in March. 
This is done by the incoming Treasurer in collaboration with the Treasurer  
of the previous year.   
.hb 3 8 (f) 
Pay all bills on time.  
.hb 3 8 (g) 
Obtain signing authority over all bank accounts.
The proper forms should be obtained as soon as the new Treasurer is appointed.  
The Treasurer shares signing authority with the President and the Producer. 
.hb 3 8 (h) 
The Treasurer should know where ALL monies are at ALL times.
He/she is entitled to this knowledge and ALL members of the Committee   
should co-operate in this matter.   
.hb 3 8 (i) 
Responsibility for ticket sales should be shared between the Treasurer  
and the Producer.   
If too many people become involed with sales, problems can arise
(e.g. money and tickets being spread out and nobody knowing who has what when). 
All cash for ticket sales should go directly to the Treasurer or to 
the box office. 
.tp 8   
The Treasurer should be informed of all activities by the Producer  
in regard to ticket sales, e.g. the size of block sales, the number of  
complimentary tickets being distributed, and the number of tickets  
for sale each night.
The Treasurer should also be kept informed of the status of sales, as well  
as this can be determined.  
.tp 8   
In the past, the Treasurer has not been a part of cast ticket sales.
This should change. 
.bt 
All expenses by F.A.S.S. members should be explained and backed up by   
receipts within a week of the expense.  
Large financial demands by Committee members should be explained and
justified, in writing if desired, before the allotment is given out.
We are not saying that advances are bad, merely that they should not
be given out carelessly.
The Treasurer has the right to question any F.A.S.S. member about   
F.A.S.S. financial matters. 
.tp 
The Treasurer should not be treated as a mere bookkeeper.   
A large amount of money flows through F.A.S.S. coffers and the Treasurer

has an important job keeping track of the money.
.se 5.4.5 'THE REPS' The~Reps   
The Faculty, Administration, Staff, and Student Representatives do not  
have well-defined responsibilities. 
Nevertheless, they have frequently played important roles in seeing 
that F.A.S.S. unfolds as it should. 
.tp 
There are many little things in F.A.S.S. that are not specifically  
in the province of any particular Committee member. 
For example, Orientation activities are not precisely the responsibility
of Vice President, Producer, or anyone else.
Such areas are places in which the various reps can be of great help by 
volunteering to supervise.  
Reps are often active in social and production work as well.
.tp 
One of the most important functions of the Reps is to keep an eye on morale.
During the show, other Committee members have a large number of duties in   
many areas, and they can seem too busy (or too important) for the   
membership to talk to.  
The Reps are certainly not being asked to babysit anyone; but the Reps  
should be sensitive to problems that might be brewing and they can help 
to smooth things out before they get out of hand.   
.se 5.4.6 'THE PRODUCER' The~Producer   
.to 

<<<<<STILL TO COME>>>>> 
.tn 
.se 5.4.7 'THE DIRECTOR' The~Director   
.to 
<<<<<STILL TO COME>>>>> 
.tn 
.se 5.4.8 'THE HEAD SCRIPTWRITER' The~Head~Scriptwriter 
The Head Scriptwriter doesn't write the script alone.   
He/she supervises a group of people who create the script over a
course of many meetings.
.se 5.4.8.1 Early~Meetings  
A theme meeting should be called shortly before the F.A.S.S. Annual Meeting 
where the actual theme will be chosen.  
The theme meeting should be open to the public and should be announced  
to all the members of F.A.S.S.  
The purpose of the theme meeting is to propose and discuss possible 
themes for the next year's show.
The meeting should narrow the possible themes down to four or five ideas
which are interesting to the group. 
Once the themes have been decided upon, one person is selected to present   
each theme and its merits and possibilities at the Annual Meeting.  
.tp 
The new Head Scriptwriter chairs the theme discussion at the Annual Meeting.
Try not to let biases show too much.
.tp 
The first brainstorming session should occur within two weeks following 
the Annual Meeting. 
The purpose of this session is to take advantage of the enthusiasm  
(we hope) was generated by the selection of the theme.  
It is also an opportunity for graduating F.A.S.S. members to provide
some input on the script.   
.tp 
It is a good idea to have one or two brainstorming sessions in the  
summer term.
This gives co-op students a chance to make suggestions, even if they
won't be around in the fall.
It is also an opportunity to gather a fund of ideas before plotting 
begins in the fall. 
These meetings might be held once a month or so; they help to keep  
F.A.S.S. in the minds of prospective F.A.S.S. members.  
.se 5.4.8.2 Fall~Meetings   
The first writers' meeting in the fall should be scheduled as soon as   
possible after the General Meeting. 
The date, time, and place of the writers' meeting should be announced   
at the General Meeting. 
It is also useful to take a survey at the General Meeting to determine  
the most convenient time for future writers' meetings.  
Taking this into account, the Head Scriptwriter should be prepared at   
the first writers' meeting to announce the time when meetings will  
regularly occur from that point onward. 
The regular meetings should be held at the same time, day and place each
week if possible.   
We have had problems in the past of people missing one meeting and never
finding out where subsequent meetings are being held.   
.tp 
The Head Scriptwriter should examine the time available for writing and 
set up a schedule of how each session should be spent.  
In general, the month of December should be reserved for editing sessions,  
and November for the actual writing of scenes.  
Time before that should be divided accordingly into general brainstorming   
sessions followed by more specific plotting sessions.   
.tp 
Usually four meetings are necessary to sort out specifics of the plot and   
to get a good outline.  
Any time above and beyond this at the beginning of the fall can be used 
for brainstorming.  
This usually means that only one or two sessions in the fall can be given   
over to undirected brainstorming.   
.se 5.4.8.3 Handling~Writers
It is important to remember that many new writers are easily discouraged.   
It is the duty of the Head Scriptwriter to prevent this if possible.
New writers should be encouraged to tell ideas to the group and not 
just the friends sitting beside them.   
They should be encouraged and their contributions appreciated, even 
if their first ideas are not what other people are looking for. 
Newcomers will learn what works and what doesn't if they are given a
chance to be heard. 
.tp 
Old writers should be discouraged from taking too high a profile, since 
this is bound to intimidate new people. 
They should also be discouraged from telling in-jokes unless they are   
prepared to share the joke with newcomers.  
If necessary, the Head Scriptwriter should talk to the old F.A.S.S. people  
and ask them to make newcomers welcome and needed.  
Fresh ideas are the most important thing in F.A.S.S.
.se 5.4.8.4 Paper~Work  
The Head Scriptwriter should write down as many of the ideas that come  
up in sessions as possible. 
Even ideas which do not seem to have any merit at the time should be noted  
in case they prove interesting or pertinent later on.   
(Even if they never prove interesting, people like to see that you're   
writing down what they say.)
.tp 
In order that all ideas be heard by everyone, the group should be   
guided to speak one at a time, although in periods of peak enthusiasm   dvanthis may

this may be impossible to enforce.  
Enforcement is probably the wrong word anyway -- no one wants to dampen 
people's enthusiasm or spontaneity. 
.tp 
The ideas gathered by the Head Scriptwriter should be written up every  
week and presented to each writer at the next meeting.  
This assures that good ideas do not get lost or forgotten from one week 
to the next.
It is also helpful for people who have missed a meeting.
The weekly idea sheets should be kept in a cumulative file for the benefit  
of those who will later be writing the scenes.  
The sheets are also useful for people who cannot attend writers' meetings   
but who are interested in what's happening. 
.se 5.4.8.5 Writing~The~Scenes  
Writers who are interested will be invited to write individual scenes once  
the plot outline is completed.  
They may write the scene by themselves or in groups of two or three.
On the day that scenes are distributed, the writers should be provided  
with the following information. 
.hb 3 8 (1) 
A complete plot outline.
.hi 3 8 (2) 
A list of major characters with descriptions of their personalities.
.hi 3 8 (3) 
A list of F.A.S.S. names (i.e. funny ones). 
.hi 3 8 (4) 
A list of random funny thoughts gathered over the previous weeks.   
.hi 3 8 (5) 
Part of a sample scene. 
.hi 3 8 (6) 
Information on how to use the computer to enter scenes, if the writer   
wishes to do this him/herself.  
.bl 
Whenever possible, the writer should be allowed to write the scene  
he/she is most interested in.   
The Head Scriptwriter should use discretion in assigning difficult  
or complicated scenes to those who can handle them, and in resolving
conflicts of several people wanting to do the same scene.   
.tp 
The writers should have two weeks during which to write their scenes.   
Ten minutes is a good length for a scene, but this naturally depends on 
how many scenes will be in the show.
Our past experience has been that scripts run a little more than a  
minute per page of computer output. 
.tp 
A writers' meeting should be held in the middle of the two week writing 
period so that writers can report on their progress and get help with   
problems which have arisen in the writing.  
People who are not working on scenes should also attend this meeting
to provide input for the actual writers.
.tp 
Any scenes which are not completed at the end of this two week period   
should be reassigned to another writer. 
The second writer should be someone dependable; he/she should be given  
another two weeks to finish the scene.  
The process used in the first two week writing period should be followed
in this second period.  
Editing can also begin once the first scenes are in.
.tp 
Some warnings: usually there are one, two, or three scenes which are
unusable.   
They will have to be re-written.
If a scene has to be re-written, tell the original writer in as diplomatic  
a way as possible; don't let him/her show up to auditions or editing
sessions and find that his scene has quietly vanished.  
.tp 
Another warning: people will not follow the plot outline.   
It seems a rather simple task to write a scene when you know what has to
happen in it, you know what most of the characters are like, and you have   
a list of jokes that you can use as you see fit.
Nevertheless, you will find that important details are left out with
abandon; you will hear "I couldn't write the character the way you  
said so I did something else"; and you will find funny bits completely  
disregarded in favour of unfunny oddities.  
What you do with this problem depends on the situation; we just thought 
we ought to warn you.   
.se 5.4.8.6 Editing~Sessions
Editing is a very long, tedious and boring process, but it is also essential
to a good script.   
Editing sessions should be held as often as necessary at whatever time  
is convenient.  
.tp 
Editing is best done in small groups of no more than eight people.  
The sessions should be arranged so that the writer of a particular  
scene can be present at the editing of his/her scene if (s)he wants.
.tp 
The editing process is simple.  
The lines of every scene are examined one by one and are changed if a   
better line/wording/joke is suggested.  
If a line or section does not work, it should be changed or cut.
The important result of editing is that every word and action in the
script has been agreed on by several people as good and appropriate,
either amusing or necessary to plot or both.
.tp 
All editing of scenes should be completed before the end of December
so that the script is completed in time for auditions during the
first week in January.  

........


This means you should start early -- editing takes approximately three  
times as long as you think it will. 
.se 5.4.8.7 Other~Hints 
Give the Tech Director a copy of the plot outline as soon as it's   
available -- this helps him/her plan for problems.  
Listen to any technical comments (s)he has about the script.
The best idea in the world is useless if it's impossible to put on  
stage, and it's easier to rewrite in November than the middle of January.   
.tp 
The Director should be involved with the scriptwriting process. 
(S)he should come to writing meetings whenever possible.
If the Director cannot go to meetings (e.g. (s)he is on work term), the 
Head Scriptwriter should arrange for the Director to get regular updates
on the status of the script.
This includes providing the Director with the finished plot outline 
and with edited scenes if possible. 
Remember that the Director will ultimately have complete artistic control   
over the script.
Minor changes are certain during the rehearsal period but disruptive major  
changes can be avoided if the Director and Head Scriptwriter work together  
throughout the writing process. 
.tp 
Make yourself available for consultation about script changes throughout
the rehearsal period.   
If you will not be on campus in the winter term, consider appointing one
of the other writers as deputy in your absence. 
This assures that changes are made with the agreement of someone closely
involved with the writing process and makes it unnecessary for the  
Director to make changes without a writer's advice. 
.se 5.4.9 'THE TECHNICAL DIRECTOR' The~Technical~Director   
.to 
<<<<<STILL TO COME>>>>> 
.tn 
.se 5.4.10 'THE STAGE MANAGER' The~Stage~Manager
.to 
<<<<<STILL TO COME>>>>> 
.tn 
.se 5.5 'FINANCIAL MATTERS' Financial~Matters   
This section of the Constitution is fairly clear.   
However there is one matter which ought to be mentioned.
.tp 
F.A.S.S. must remain a non-profit organization or we'll have all kinds  
of problems if the Tax Department finds out about us.   
Therefore we generally give away any surplus funds we have over and above   
the float for production of the show.   
(Sometimes we have kept money back for a year or two if there wasn't
enough to buy anything significant for anyone, but we usually make a
tidy profit these days and can afford to be generous

tidy profit these days and can afford to be generous.)  
In the distant past, F.A.S.S. gaves its money to worthy projects all
over campus -- for example, the first piano in the Campus Centre was
donated by F.A.S.S., as is noted in a plaque on the piano room door.
Recently however, F.A.S.S. has given gifts to the theatre to show our   
appreciation for the many things they do for us.
.tp 
We like giving something definite rather than a blank cheque -- it's more   
satisfying to point to the headsets in T of A and say "We paid for those",  
than to wave one's hands vaguely about in the direction of the Arts Centre. 
There is often a good deal of problem in pinning down exactly what the  
theatre needs or wants...speak to three people at the Arts Centre and you   
will get three different answers.   
Do what you can.
Get suggestions from the membership.
.se 5.6 PROCEDURES Procedures   
The procedures for the conduct of meetings are described in the section 
above describing the duties of the President.   
.tp 
The procedure for amending the Constitution is complicated  
by the difficulty of determining the exact number of active members 
of F.A.S.S. 
It would be nice to say (for example) that amendments to the Constitution   
must be accepted by two thirds of the active members of the Company.
However, no one knows how to count who is in F.A.S.S. and who isn't.
Therefore we have said that changes require two thirds of the people who
show up at a meeting of all the membership of F.A.S.S.  
.se 6.0 BENEDICTION Benediction 
Go happily into the ways of F.A.S.S. and take what comfort you can  
from the fact that your predecessors have survived the ridiculous hours,
the thousands of crises, and the way people never see what you're doing 
until you make a mistake.   
Be cheered by the thought that F.A.S.S. continues to bring fun to UW because
of people like you. 
However rough it may look in the wee hours of dawn the night before the 
show, no doubt F.A.S.S. is unfolding as it should.  
