


.(.3.(.3
fass























                          Contents  
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
The Central Point . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Personal Self-Esteem, and Social Self-Esteem  . . . . . .  4
     I - Self Esteem: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     II - Social Self-Esteem: . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Influencing Self - Esteem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
              SELF ESTEEM AND SOCIAL INFLUENCE  
SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY                                  IAN ALLEN
PSYCH 253                                      74210779 ARTS
NOVEMBER 20, 1976                            N-5, 314, V - 1
                          Preface   
          "There is no value judgement more impor-  
          tant to man - no factor more decisive in  
          his   psychological   development    and  
          motivation  than  the estimate he passes  
          on himself. (Branden, 1969)"  
                     The Central Point  
                      A philosophistry  
          I am the Universe's centre.   
          No subtle sceptics can confound me;   

          for how can other viewpoints enter,   
          when all the rest is all around me?   
                   - Piet Hein, GROOKS 3
          At the risk of getting technical this early in the
paper,  we  must stop and consider just what is meant by the
term   "self-esteem".   I   should   like   to   avoid   the
methodological  problems   involved  in  defining  behaviour
specifically  indicative  of  levels  of  self-esteem  (such
problems  are  amply  covered in the literature), and rather
concentrate more on aspects of the theoretical  concept  it-
self.   
          Self-esteem is the evaluative part  of  the  self-
concept (Mackeen, 1973),
          "By self-esteem we refer to the  evalua-  
          tion  which  the  individual  makes  and  
          customarily mantains with regard to him-  
          self:  it  expresses  an attitude of ap-  
          proval or disapproval, and indicates the  
          extent  to which the individual believes  
          himself to be capable, significant, suc-  
          cessful,  and  worthy.   In short, self-  
          esteem is a personal judgement  of  wor-  
          thiness  that  is  expressed  in the at-  
          titudes the individual holds toward him-  
          self." (Coopersmith, 1967)
          "Esteem has the same root as the verb to  
          estimate -  that  is,  to  appraise,  to  
          evaluate; so that the denotative meaning  
          of self-esteem is self-appraisal, an at-  
          tempt to determine the real worth (great  
          or little) of the self.  ...To  conceive  
          of   self-esteem   as   a   psychosocial  
          resource requires  combining  these  two  
          meanings  to  define  it as a reasonably  
          accurate and realistic appraisal of  the  
          self,  resulting in the finding that the  
          self has worth." (Stringer, 1971) 
          It  provides  for  a certain amount of "social in-
sulation" by buffering stimuli which impinge on  us,  giving
us  time to evaluate them and consider our course of action.
Persons with high self-esteem are thusly  one  step  removed
from   the   Stimulus-Response  paradigm,  with  self-esteem
becoming an intervening variable:  Stimulus  =>  Self-Esteem
=>  Response.   Persons  of  low self-esteem are necessarily
more tied to the tyranny of the stimuli in the  environment,
and  show  more  character-inconsistent  behaviours  as  the
demands of social interaction vary. (Ziller et al, 1969)
          A seemingly contradictory aspect of this relation-
ship was noted by Ziller et al. (1969).  Persons  displaying
high  self-esteem were found to be more conforming than per-
sons of low self-esteem.  This was seen as a possible result
of  high  self-esteem subjects being better able to tolerate
going along with the reference group, where low  self-esteem
subjects felt it necessary to preserve their individuality. 
          Other studies confirm that persons with high self-
esteem temd to be more internally oriented, relying more  on
internal  than  external  reinforcement  (Fish & Karabenick,
1971, Ryckman & Sherman, 1973).  This  perceived  "locus  of
control"  was differentiated into three dimensions: Personal
(my personal control over events), Powerful-Others (the  ex-
tent  to  which  I am controlled by others), and Chance (how
much I believe that the environment responds without  regard
for  my  actions).   Persons  of  high self-esteem expressed
feelings of high control over events, freedom from  external
control,  and  a belief that the environment was predictable
and not greatly subject to chance (Ryckman & Canon, 1975).  
          Given  this  outline  of "self-esteem", we may now
consider the factors which underlie and sustain it. 
          "it entails a sense of personal efficacy  
          and  a  sense  of personal worth.  It is  
          the integrated  sum  of  self-confidence  
          and  self-respect.  It is the conviction  
          that one is competent to live and worthy  
          of living." (Branden, 1969)   
        Personal Self-Esteem, and Social Self-Esteem
I - Self Esteem:
          The  majority  of  social  psychologists appear to
view self-esteem as closely tied to social  interaction  and
evaluations  of  significant  others.  A departure from this
viewpoint is made by  Branden  (1969),  who  considers  that
self-esteem  should  and  must come before achievement, as a
product of an individual's  rational  "psycho-epistomology".
In  his view, dependence on others for our self-esteem makes
us reliant on something beyond our control -  a  poor  basis
for action.  This "leads man away from his reality", and in-
to becoming what Branden calls a "social metaphysician".  To
overcome  this  other-dependency  Branden  recommends 1) ob-
serving reality through one's own eyes, and 2) breaking free
of the tendency to believe emotions, which he sees as coming
from evaluations:   
          "An emotion is the psychosomatic form in  
          which  man  experiences  his estimate of  
          the beneficial or  harmful  relationship  
          of  some  aspect of reality to himself."  
          (Branden, 1969)   
          His basic requirements  for  self-esteem  parallel
these  recommendations, they are the will to know, to under-
stand, and "cognitive  self-assertiveness",  which  includes
careful attention to the preservation of rational control.  
          This  methodology  seems  partially worthwhile, in
that it encourages accurate social perception  and  rational
examinataion  of one's own surroundings; however, it may beg
the question concerning persons who are  "social  metaphysi-
cians"   and   consequently  other-dependent.   Rather  than
changing them to  conform  to  the  "psycho-epistomological"
view  of self-esteem (Branden's term), we might consider the
other social psychologists' views of social self-esteem.
II - Social Self-Esteem:
          Ziller et al.  (1969)  note  that  there  are  few
physical cues available by which an individual may judge his
worth, leading him  to  use  "social  reality"  and  others'
evaluations  for  his  own  comparisons.  Social self-esteem
comprises both  self  respect  and  acceptance,  and  social
acceptance,  the latter being dependent on social reinforce-
ment and interactions with significant others where the  in-
dividual  perceives  whether  he  is worthy of their respect
(Stringer, 1971, Ziller et al, 1969,  Combs  et  al.,  1971,
Combs & Snygg, 1959, Mackeen, 1973).
          This  conceptualization of self-esteem states that
positive self-esteem is infuenced by  factors  such  as  ex-
posure  to  confident  and  effective  people  (Coopersmith,
1967), repeated adequate experiences (Combs & Snygg,  1959),
and being treated with respect, integrity, and worth (Combs,
Avila,  &  Purkey, 1971).  Combs and Snygg (1959) offer four
values which contribute to  an  individual's  selection  and
evaluation  of perceptions so as to enhance adequacy: 1) The
"willingness to look", similar to Branden's "will  to  know"
mentioned  earlier.  This  keeps the individual in search of
more consistent goals and values which will,  in  turn,  en-
hance  adequacy.  2) A fluid, open, perceptual field must be
cultivated to accept and, if necessary, adapt to the  fruits
of  the  "willingness  to look" and the demands of a dynamic
society. 3) The adoption  as  goals  of  the  three  charac-
teristics  of  the  "adequate  personality"  - a) a positive
self-concept, b) the capacity for acceptance, and c) a  high
degree  of identification with others. 4) Finally, the main-
tenance of a clear set of  goals,  values,  and  priorities,
with a good sense of the relative importance of each.   
                 Influencing Self - Esteem  
          A  positive  view of self is learned and therefore
can be taught; the issue becomes one of dtermining  the  na-
ture  of  this  process,  its  facilitators  and  inhibitors
(Combs, Avila, & Purkey, 1971). 
          Our teachers may be explicit  as  in  therapy  and
counselling,  or implicit as were the parents and peers from
whom we developed our initial self-identity.  In a  somewhat
circular fashion we may note that our teachers must be "sig-
nificant  others"  in  order  that  we  may  learn from them
(Combs, Avila, & Purkey, 1971); however, the  definition  of
"significant others" may be persons from whom we learn! 
          There  are at least two basic factors which deter-
mine how a new concept may influence our self-image (Combs &
Snygg, 1959; Combs et al., 1971):   
          1) Our ability to see the difference between  cul-
tural  demands  and the "phenomenal self" which we are.  One
must first note that a discrepancy exists between one's  ex-
perience  and  self-perceptions.   This necessarily involves
stepping outside one's own experience and seeing oneself  as
others  do.  Change comes "... through acceptance of self as
one is.  After all, we can only  make  changes  in  self  by
beginning  where  we  are"  (Combs  & Snygg, 1959).  Combs &
Snygg emphasize that one should only tackle problems one can
reasonably cope with at one's present level of ability. 
          2) Our ability to include the new concept into our
own phenomenal frame of reference, whether  through  gradual
change  or  traumatic shock.  Combs & Snygg (1959) note that
it is an inherent characteristic of our "phenomenal  selves"
which  leads  us  to  ignore  incosistent perceptions, where
possible, and to amplify ones which  confirm  currently  ex-
isting concepts of self.  They note that the more central or
personal the current self-concept is, the more subject it is
to  this  process.   "Self change requres a kind of flirting
with inadequacy."   
          Coopersmith's  (1967) studies of children elicited
a number of correlates and  non-correlates  of  self-esteem.
Popularity  and physical atractiveness were not related, nor
was the size of the child's  family.  Discipline  seemed  to
foster  self-esteem;  permissive families' children had less
self-esteem  than   children   in   moderately   disciplined
families.   It  was  noted  that  the  discipline  of  these
families was not so  severe  so  as  to  create  rigid  per-
sonalities in the children.  Coopersmith conjectured that it
was  the  lack  of  "clear  and  stable  evaluations"  which
fostered the dependency in permissive families. 
          Creativity was related to self-esteem, both  being
dependent  on  the same process of innovation.  Creativity's
product is an innovative idea, self-esteem's product  is  an
innovative  personality.  In either case the creator must be
socially independent.  Truth is personal:   
          "Creativity, like independence,  depends  
          upon  a personality structure that seeks  
          to bring public belief in correspondence  
          with  private conviction." (Coopersmith,  
          1967) 
          In concrete terms, Baron, Bass,  &  Vietze  (1971)
found person-oriented praise more effective in raising self-
esteem than task-oriented  praise.   Ziller  et  al.  (1969)
noted  that persons holding a high status are led to believe
they  are  worth  more.  This status-effect applied to their
children as well. Election winners were  found  to  rise  in
self-esteem,  where  losers  dropped.  (This may be due to a
personal investment in the outcome of the  election,  rather
than just an effect of elevation of status.)
          Reference to Maslow's heirarchy of needs (Table I,
1954) shows esteem in fourth place, with Branden's "will  to
know" fifth.
               TABLE I - Maslow's Need Heirarchy
               1) Physiological needs   
               2) Saftey, familiarity   elf-        

               3) Belonging and love
               4) Esteem
               5) Cognitive: the need to know, understand   
               (Maslow, 1954)   
