


......r.
fass
























.ce 2   
FASS Presents its Twentieth Show:   
"Alice in Wonderloo"
.sp 2   
.ti 5   
As John Lennon once sang, "All you need is FASS."  (Well, close enough, 
anyway.)
Earlier on this year, you were told how FASS was the four letter word that  
started with "F" that meant the most fun thing you could do with other  
people.  But, unless you are one of the lucky few, you didn't audition  
for the show and are already missing out on all that fun.  All is not   
lost, however, for you can still see the twentieth production of FASS,  
this year (1982 if you haven't bought a calendar yet) entitled  
"Alice in Wonderloo or Through the Looking FASS"
.ti 5   
FASS, if you were wondering, stands for Faculty, Administration, Staff  
and Students, which is a short way of saying everybody.  Each year the  
members of FASS write, produce, direct and act in a live theatre show   
that pokes fun at life in general and life at the UW campus in particular.  
Coming the first week of February, you can thrill to the adventures of  
Waterloo co-op student Alice Aforethought as she travels through the
mystery land known as Wonderloo.
.ti 5   
FASS has got it all this year, eggs, bunnies, vampires, generals,   
royalty, and of course sex.  As an added attraction, this year's show will  
be shown with 3-D sound!  You thrilled to 3-D pictures in "The Creature 
From the Black Lagoon", and now you can wonder at the realism provided  
by three dimensional sound.  Each audience member will be issued red and
green ears so that they can pick up the full effect from our specially  
designed 3-D sound system.  
.ti 5   
FASS runs 5 shows.  Opening night is Wednesday, February third at 8 pm. 
There are shows Thursday and Saturday night (Feb 4th and 6th) at 8 pm as
well.  Two shows will be run Friday, February 5th, one at 7 pm with the 
famous late show running at 10 pm.  All shows are in the Humanities 
Theatre in the Hagey Hall (not the Theatre of the Arts as past shows have   
been)  Tickets can be purchased in the Humanities building box office,  
next to the theatre in Hagey Hall.  Tickets for Wednesday and Thursday night
are $3.00, tickets for Friday and Saturday shows are $3.50.  Tickets go 
quickly as a rule, so you had better hurry.  (I know everybody says this
about their show, but ask any veteran FASS fan and you will find this   
is true.)   
.ti 5   
FASS is a live show done by and aimed right at the people here at   
Waterloo.  For only $3.00 (or $3.50) You can't find a better entertainment  
value in the Humanities Theatre between Feb 3rd and 6th.  It is a well  
known fact that FASS is the best thing in this star system to go to on  
a first date.  (Don't let anybody tell you that Broadway is better!)
See you at the show.
.ti 30  
Brad Templeton  
