


.D.@.@.s
fass
























.ce 1   
WHAT IS FASS?  FASS IS FUN! 
.ti 5   
Do you want fun? Do you want frolic? Do you want good times?
If the answer to any of these questions is yes, then you want   
to become a part of the longest running, most gregarious group  
on campus.  FASS!   
.ti 5   
FASS stands for Faculty, Administration, Staff and Students and there's 
a good chance that you fall into one of those categories.   
Having so fallen, pick yourself up, dust yourself off and proceed to
your local FASS meeting.
.ti 5   
There has to be more to it than just parties, you say?  Well you're right!  
Every year we get together to write and perform a hilarious musical 
comedy spoof on life at U of W and life in general. We don't care if you've 
never been in a play before or have a terrible case of stage fright or can't
sing a note.  FASS has a place for everyone!
.ti 5   
FASS needs actors and non-actors.  What no one seems to know is that there  
is a whole mess of other folks who are a part of FASS and are never seen on 
stage.  You and your friends, both old and new, might find a place  
in our large support crew by scrounging props at local garage sales, getting
costume bargains at used clothing stores or building FASS sets or helping   
write the script.  You might even be a stage hand and carry your own roll   
of masking tape.
.ti 5   
The call for cast and crew goes out the first week of each January when we  
round up people just like you.  We rehearse the play through January,   
and stage it for an amazing four evenings to hundreds of appreciative   
fans at the beginning of February.  
To keep ourselves amused, we have parties (you've heard about them before). 
Many of these parties are paid for from the money we made on last year's
show.  Since we are an all-volunteer troupe we think of the parties and the 
people we meet as our payment for putting on such a great show! 
.ti 5   
I can see you wipe a tear from your eye as you realize that you are going   
on a co-op work term in the Amazon Rain Forest and won't be around in   
January.  Well, there's no need to cry. It may be too far to commute for
rehearsals, but you can still be an important part of FASS. 
Have you ever told a joke? Remember that before the Fall term ends we    to have to write that fun and funny play an

have to write that fun and funny play and believe me, we need all the   
help we can get. You can help us write a show filled to overflowing 
with music, wit and humour.  We hold script and gag writing meetings
from September through December. If you don't come and enlighten us 
with your jokes, ideas and silly songs we will be forced to sit 
monkeys down at typewriters in order to get a script in time for the show.  
.ti 5   
So what are you waiting for?  FASS is calling you.  Watch for posters   
and when you see the name FASS read what it is telling you to do.   
The general meeting/wild party for all interested persons is on 
Tuesday September 22. (Watch for posters to find out the location). 
Writer's meetings will start soon after that.   
.ti 5   
Don't miss this opportunity for the experience of a lifetime. This  
year FASS wants to teach you that "There's no place like HUM".  
