


......j.
fass
























.ll 64  
.ce 
FASS Presents its Twentieth Show:   
.ce 
"Alice in Wonderloo"
.sp 4   
.ds 
.in 5   
Someone once said that FASS is a four letter word that started with "F" 
that meant the most fun thing you could do with other people.   
However, unless you are one of the lucky few, you didn't audition for   
the show and so are already missing out on all that fun.
All is not lost, though, because you can still see the twentieth production 
of FASS entitled "Alice in Wonderloo or Through the Looking FASS".  
.sp.in 5
In case you were wondering, FASS stands for Faculty, Administration, Staff  
and Students.  Each year the members of FASS write, produce, direct and act 
in a live theatre show that pokes fun at life in general and life at the UW 
campus in particular.  Throughout the first week of February, you can thrill
to the adventures of Waterloo co-op student Alice Aforethought as she travels   
through the mysterious land known as Wonderloo. 
.sp 
.in 5   
FASS has it all this year:  eggs, bunnies, vampires, generals, royalty, and 
of course bad jokes.  As an added attraction, this year's show will be  
shown in 3-D sound!  You thrilled to 3-D pictures in "The Creature From 
the Black Lagoon", and now you can wonder at the realism provided by    
three dimensional sound.  Each audience member will be issued red and green     
ears so that they can pick up the full effect from our specially designed   
3-D sound system.   
.sp.in 5
FASS has five shows this year.  Showtimes and prices are as follows:
.nf.po 15   
Wednesday, February 3    8:00     $3.00 
Thursday, February 4     8:00     $3.00 
Friday, February 5       7:00     $3.00 
                        10:00     $3.50 
Saturday, February 6     8:00     $3.50 
.fi 
Tickets are available at the Humanities box office. 
They go quickly as a rule, so you had better hurry.         
.sp 
.in 5   
FASS is a live show done by and aimed right at the people here at Waterloo. 
For only $3.00 (or $3.50), you can't find a better entertainment value. 
See you at the show.
