


.[!.....
bjeroehl






















.po 10  
.nj 
.ls 2   
.ll 60  
.ce 
Theatresports   
.sp 
.ti +5  
After a successful four-month stay in the Victoria Park Pavilion, Theatresports 
Waterloo is back on campus again.   
.ti +5  
Theatresports is a lively game of improvisational comedy, in which teams of 
performers take turns creating fast, funny scenes based on suggestions by the   
audience.  It's got a healthy following all across Canada, and is spreading 
fast.   
Performers from Theatresports Toronto have often moved on to bigger things, 
including professional performing companies in the Second City vein.
The number of improv groups in Toronto is steadily growing, due at least in 
part to the influence of Theatresports. 
.ti +5  
Here in Waterloo (the first community in Ontario to "discover" Theatresports)   
the games are played once a week, and have traditionally been performed in  
the Rehearsal Room in the Humanities building (room HH180) on Saturday nights.  
The schedule for this term hasn't been finalized yet, but the plans are to  
continue as always in the same old locale.  
.ti +5  








Teams of Theatresports players have played in other cities, and have done   
extremely well.  In addition, teams from Toronto, Brantford and Hamilton have   
all played here in Waterloo on several occasions.   
Rogers Cable Television has been taping a number of the games, and broadcasting 
them on Cable 4 (the local community station).  
.ti +5  
The people who play Theatresports (with a few exceptions) all got their start   
by sitting in the audience watching the game.  New players come from the
audience, and workshops are held periodically to help new players "get up to
speed". 
.ti +5  
During the past summer, three U of W students (Margaret Eaton, Linda Eickmeier  
and Lily Ann Green) travelled to senior public schools in the KW area teaching  
Theatresports and organizing the kids into teams.  In addition, they gave free  
improvisational comedy workshops at the Y, and have been teaching similar   
workshops here on campus.  The entire project was sponsored by a Summer Canada  
Grant, and was under the auspices of Parks and Recreation.  
.ti +5  
More recently, Cheryl Grant (a former U of W Drama student) has been organizing 

















"Imagination Workshops" among pre-school children at day camps in Kitchener 
and Waterloo, all of which have been quite well-received.   
.ti +5  
As mentioned earlier, Theatresports was performed in Victoria Park during the   
summer; audiences there have been receptive, and many new players have joined   
over the past few months.  It remains to be seen what effect this new blood 
will have on Theatresports, though most players expect that it will bring about 
a lot of enthusiasm and some lively new games and challenges.   
.ti +5  
Joining Theatresports is easy; anyone who wants to participate can speak to 
any of the "established" performers and get some pointers.  A few workshops 
can teach the basics of improvisation, and from there on it's all a question
of gaining experience.  Every term, players spring out of the audience and  
form teams on their own (and usually do quite well).
.ti +5  
Most of this term's activities are still in the planning stages; there are  
more plans to play against teams from other cities, both here and "away" games. 
Organizing teams in local area high schools is a major project, as is expansion 


















to still more off-campus locations (an attempt to get people of the KW community involved   
to a greater extent than they have been).   
.ti +5  
The main focus of Theatresports always has been (and always will be) comedy.
The scenes are wild, fun, and entertaining both for the audiences and the   
players, and
completely different from conventional plays, films or television.  
.ti +5  
Current plans are for Theatresports to be played every Tuesday night in 
HH180; this may change, depending on availability of the room and the   
players.  Watch the Imprint "Campus Events" column for more information.
