


.&u%.%..
fass























        FFFAAASSSSSS dddiiirrreeeccctttsss dddeeevvviiisssiiivvveee jjjaaabbbsss aaattt ssstttuuudddeeennntttsss  


    "They  were awfully rough on engineers" I heard one 
man woefully comment as I left the annual FASS  presen- 
tation February 1. And indeed they were.
    FASS came across like Enginews in reverse, but with 
the same purpose in mind: Using humour to give one sec- 
tion of campus a mock sense  of  superiority  over  and 
contempt  for  another  section of campus. Each of them 
serve only to divide students.  
    There  were,  of course, a few jibes at ex-Minister 
of Colleges and Universities Harry Parrott, the food at 
food  services  on  campus,  and things "getting hotter 
than the PAC showers when somebody flushes the toilet." 
But these were only minor skirmishes within the overall 
content of the show.
    "Ships  that FASS in the Night", a farce about life 
aboard the ESS Uniwat, was supposedly a parody of  life 
at UW, but it proved to be little more than a forum for 
attacks on students, especially engineers.  


    The engineers were portrayed as stupid, sexist, and 
cowardly.  To begin with, we hear that the  ESS  Uniwat 
is  powered  by  94.5 engineers on work terms (105.7 on 
cable) who are only able to move the ship at full speed 
when you can get them all to row in the same direction. 
    When a chance is given them to rise  out  of  their 
dungeon  and  "take over the bridge", the lead engineer 
thrusts forward his mug of beer  and  gleefully  shouts 
out  "Yea!". Then, perplexed by what he's committed his 
gang to do, he asks, "What's a bridge?"  But  he  still 
agrees  to  do  it because he's looking for a topic for 
his work term report.   
    Later  in  the  show  the  whole  cast arrives at a 
tropical resort hotel and the engineers are seen as ob- 
sessed with only one thing -- "Getting layed." But when 
they are offered a chance to fulfill their dreams, only 
one  of  them  shows  up.  The  rest are said to be too 
"cowardly". 
    In  addition, there were the expected FASS jibes at 
the AIA, The Chevron, and Rick Smit takes some  knocks. 
But  somehow  they didn't think it was necessary to at- 
tack Imprint. Maybe it had something  to  do  with  the 








Board  of  Publications  chairperson  and  Imprint con- 
tributor being one of the main script-writers.  
    The  acting  was  good considering it was a cast of 
amateurs. Yet very little is demanded of the  performer 
in  such slap-stick, do-your-own-thing types of produc- 
tions.  
    There  were, however, two exceptions, although they 
were closer to being feats of physical  dexterity  than 
great acting.   
    Martin Hunt as  the  hunchback  Pseudomoto  at  one 
point  got  carried  away with a loose-kneed, lop-sided 
jig that had the audience in stitches.  
    And  Steve  Hull  as  Henry  Morgan  Light  somehow 
managed, all on a peg leg, a stomping blues number com- 
bined with a jive that a two-legged person might envy.  
    In summation, the annual FASS this year was a semi- 
talented  presentation  of  a  malicious,  anti-student 
theme.  


                           --David Carter   
