


..6N....
bjeroehl






















.pg 
What's got 96 legs and sings?  The answer, as we'll all see for ourselves   
early in February, is FASS 1982.
.pg 
FASS is an amateur student theatre group that puts on a zany show every year,   
poking fun at everything from university life to classical literature.  
This year's show is called "Alice in Wonderloo" (or "Alice Through the Looking  
Fass") and features things like a vampiric walrus (named Count Paul Bearer),
a much-abused cat named Dinah (ever see a Dinah soar?) and an evil organization 
called "A.L.I.C.E". 
.pg 
Along the way the show manages to satirize everything from campus food to   
life in engineering, all in a very light-hearted and musical way.   
.pg 
FASS as an organization has been around since 1963, and along the way has offered   
such shows as "The Saint Valentine's Day FASSacre", "Days of Future FASS",  
"Ships that FASS in the Night" and "FASSified Information".  This year, for the 
first time in its illustrious history, the show will be held in the Humanities  
Theatre (in previous years the show has always been put on in the Theatre of the
Arts).  
.pg 





Village life, active towing and the joys of using WIDJET are only a few of the  
topical topics that serve as targets for satire.  Game shows, education cutbacks
and Canada's Wonderland are all there too, along with Doug Wright and various   
other famous (and infamous) university types.   
.pg 
The show is a broad comedy, with lots of singing and dancing and carrying on
(mostly carrying on).  As always, there'll be lots and lots of outrageous puns, 
ancient jokes, funny names  
(Ann Chovie, Oscar Nominee, Justin Time and a few others come to mind), 
and all the other things that always make FASS the funniest show on campus. 
.pg 
By the time you see this article, it'll be too late to be in the show (but if   
you're around next year, join it then; FASS gives great party).  You still have 
a chance to see the show, though; it'll be on the 3, 4, 5 and 6 of February and 
will be held in the Humanities Theatre (located, logically enough, in the Humanities Building). 
.pg 
Showtime is generally 8 pm, except for the Friday night (the 5th) when there'll 
be two shows (7 and 10).  The friday 10 pm show has a reputation for being  




















full of even wilder and zanier goings-on than the rest of the shows, so if you  
have your heart set on seeing it then you better hurry and get your tickets.
Just call up or visit the Arts Centre (over in Hagey Hall of the Humanities)
and say you'd like tickets for FASS.  Prices are on the order of $3 or $3.50,   
depending on what night you see the show; less than the price of a movie, and   
a he** of a lot more fun!   
