


...J.{.+
fass























The Actual, Complete Last Final FASS Plott!!!   


Wherein we shall find good guys, bad guys, clods, fools, Feds, and sundry ilk.  


Scene I:0  The Good Guys' Office


  The good guys have an agency.  The feds kick them out.  Henceforth the feds   
must carry their office equipment with them.  They wander out into the famous   
Festering Room in South Rumpus Hall, come up with some song concepts which  
fail, and then produce the opening song.  We hear a verse of it, and then   
out comes the FASS director.  Big production number.  Darkness.  Chief  
Reason:  "Oh, shit!"


Scene I:1   In the Ruler's Home 


  Generalissimo Monty Zuma talks to his puppet as though it were his mother 
This puppet should be a combination of Norman Bates' mother in Psycho and   
Chuck (or Bob; I can never keep those two straight) from Soap.  He hides
the puppet (so as to keep the suspense unbearable) and the meeting begins.  
Establish Victoria as an actress and set up a tenuous link between her  
and the ad agencies.  Establish Rod as the right-hand man.  Establish   

Drugs.  Kill name SOMA.  Country in financial trouble.  Do they want
foreign intervention?  Yes.  So, they come up with the idea of the  
ad campaign in torturous FASS fashion.  Discussion of plans, mention
Big Mac project.  Meet rebels in the famous Switching-Rebels-For-The-   
Furniture Sketch.  Essentially, the bare bones are as we have seen. 


Scene I:2  Manhattan; the Bad Guy's Agency  


Pretty much as we have it now, though we could add the  Love Bus
sequence here as one of the products to be promoted to hell and gone.   
It would give us a coninuity between the Love Bus (which primarily  
appears in Act Two, and yes, Andrew, I like it enough to let it run through 
the script) and the Main Plot.  Let's also bring in some more characters
if we can.  I am trying to think of a way to do this.  Perhaps the Singing  
Copyboys can be brought in, here.   
    
Scene I:3  Rexdale.  Rexdale General Hospital.  


  Operating Theatre Three.  The CUSO people arrive in order to  
film a commercial for the International Organ Bank.  New things to add: 
We can add (and delete) an Ann Murray character for the bank commercial.
I am also going to add the line, "First organ bank to have an instant   
teller!"  The commercial proceeds.  The hospital gets incensed.  Let's  
bring in the administrator earlier, to provide a foil for our CUSO.  let's  
also bring in the Generalissimo and the Getty, Sperg & Dress people earlier.
I want to increase the number of people in this scene, somehow, so there
are two possibilities.  The first is that I bring in a group of tourists
or school-children or glandular dwarfs on a tour of the hospital, and the   
good guys sneak out on their knees, pretending to be part of the group. 
The second possibility is that we enlarge the surgery team to the size  
it would really be:  a surgeon, an intern assisting, two scrub nurses,  
an anaesthesiologist, and two other nurses.  I've never figured out what
the other two do, but they're almost invariable cute.  Can we slip  
in Dr. Bob?  No, forget that.  It conflicts with the situation. 
We could also call for reinforcements at this point, but I would like to
point out that this is really the first time that we have met the CUSO  
people and it isn't time for that joke.  In fact, it isn't quite time   ....for the "wait for it" joke; that can be more profitably 

for the "wait for it" joke; that can be more profitably arranged in a   
later scene.  This scene doesn't need a sub-plot intrusion, it has  
enough shit running through it.  Let's add some more gags, maybe enlarge
on the intersecting dialogue bit if we can get it to be tight enough
and funny enough.   


  We do have to have the details of the contest.


Scene I:4  Rick's Cafe Canadien in SCLAC


  The Bad Guys decide to win, by hook or by crook, so they make a deal with 
the rebels:  if the Bad Guys support them and give them the aid they need   
to revolt, then the rebels will give all future advertising campaigns to the
Bad Guys.  The Rebels aren't too smart; they say "Sure!"
  As well, we have the Casablanca lines thing.  


Scene I:5 A TV Studio, Rexdale/Somewhere Else in the Ruler's Home   


  The Big One.  Simultaneously, on our stage, the Good Guys (with the ruler 
of the SCLAC) are staging a television show, complete with the "brilliant"  
commercials that they have developed.  On the other side of the stage, the  
Rebels and the Bad Guys are staging a revolution in the SCLAC.  Both sides  
win their respective contests at the same time, giving us the bang-up finish
we need for Act I.  
As far as 1-5 goes, Andrew, I understand it not as well as you.  This time  
you have a handle on it and I don't.  Take it from there.   


ACT II  


Scene II:1  The Ruler's Home (now a Palace) 


  Back in the Costa Living capitol, we find that the Rebels are hopeless twits  
and are incapable of running the country.  The Bad Guys are doing it,   
behind the scenes.  


Scene II:2  On a Subway Train   


  The Good Guys and their office equipment are now on the subway with the Ruler 
and he is not terribly upset by the loss of his country.  He plans to start a   
chain of Monty Zuma's Repast fast food restaurants and he explains to the   
Good Guys (who are not terribly bright) how his junk foods can help humanity.   
The puppet is nearly in total control, now.  The Good Guys agree to help    
market the fast food.  We'll try for some clever parodies here.  If not, the
usual FASS standard will do.  Halfway through the scene, he gets a call from
the peasants asking for his help.  Drunk with power, the puppet refuses.  Then  
the Canadian Food and Drug People (probably Health and Welfare, though it may   
be Consumer Aid) say that he can't have his fast food chain.  The puppet goes   
mad, finally suiciding.  (Brenz tells me that it's easy to have a puppet    
explode on an actor's hand, and we'd only use up three actors....)  By now  
freed from the puppet's control, the Ruler realizes that he's a nice guy and
agrees to go help the peasants.  He convinces the Good Guys to come along.  
  I don't know about this scene.  I'm going to try and write it to this 
outline, and include the reinforcements joke.  Apart from that, I don't 
know what else there is.  We may throw in the Love Bus here, and that will  
bring it to its peak of stupidity.  


Scene II:3  A Junk Food Speakeasy in the SCLAC  


  This is probably Rick's cafe under the new regime.  It is run just like   
a speakeasy from the twenties, with passwords (slogans) and somewhere in
the scene, there should be a raid.  Suddenly, posters of the Four Basic 
Food Groups are put up, and the dartboard with Monique Begin's face is  
turned to the wall. 
  In a burst of theatrical legerdemain, it is the peasants grumbling about  
the new regime.  They decide to revolt, and to get the Ruler to lead them.  
They phone him in Norte America, but he's still in the middle of the previous   
scene, so he won't come.  They plan a revolution, and the Ruler phones at the   
end of the scene to tell them that he will be there.  This scene is also going  
to be a bitch to write unless the writer does an excellent parody of planning   
the big attack. 


Scene II:4  Somewhere Else in the Ruler's Home  
            (Yes, the same Somewhere Else)  


  The Revolution:  The revolution will go on in the background, and we have 
to bring out the secret weapon, Big Mac, in time for the end of this scene. 
Everything is resolved, so it looks like the show is ending.
For instance, the Ruler gets a new puppet (Yes, Casey and Finnegan),    
Victoria Cross gets a producer (the FASS producer from I:0), the bad guys   
get to be her manager(s), and the good guys get some quantity of money. 
We have a closing song, and then as the lights start to dim, the Hacklike   
copywriter shouts, "Wait a minute!  I'm supposed to get the girl!" and leads
us into:


The New Improved Scene II:4 (or the multiple endings headache)  

e ba   The f

   The first ending belongs to the Hacklike copywriter, who claims that he  
should have gotten the girl.  Although no one died in the war in II:4, when 
he re-enacts it, he is the epitome of cool spy-type and John Wayne-type 
heroes, slaughtering people as he goes.  The more uncertain of himself he is
in the rest of the show, the cooler he should be here.  It makes it funnier.
He kills off all of the rebels except Victoria Cross and the Paranoid Leader.   
>Especially he kills off the FASS producer, probably with a terse, "Die, louse" 
and then he is about to claim his prize--a passionate kiss from Victoria, and   
she says, "Not on your life, creep."  Some of the bad guys have been killed 
in this onslaught.  
   But things do not end there.  Then, the Paranoid Leader steps forward,       
revealing that he has heard a voice and that voice has told him that he can 
Rule The World!  He brings out...the Hand Puppet!  He kills off all of the  
peasants and a few more of the bad ad agency guys.  He is about to Rule The 
World (well, a piece of it) when he is shot.    
   Out strides Rick, of Rick's Cafe Canadien.  Louise, the secretary, admits
that what she really wants is Rick.  Rick goes to her, and professes his love   
for her, then he and his staff proceed to trash all of the members of the   
Ruler's regime.  He proclaims the country safe for democracy when:  
   A group of Feds (the same ones from I:0) walk across the stage, and mow  
down Rick and his cafe staff as they go.  Everyone remaining except the Good
Guys Ad Agency is slaughtered.  The Feds announce the opening of a new pub and  
walk off.   
   The Good Guys look at each other, and then:  "You want a beer?"  "Yeah." 
"Sure could use one."  "Right."  They walk off.  All of the bodies leap to  
their feet and reprise the closing song.
