


...J.p.^
fass























The Who's Who of FASS Eighty-Four.  


  Fasten your seatbelts, there are several groups involved in this year's   
show, so we'll divide them into groups for your convenience.  The groups are:   
(1) The Good Guys Ad Agency; (2) The Bad Guys Ad Agency; (3) Generallissimo 
Monty Zuma and His Merry Men; (3) The Health Food Rebels; (5) The Peasants; 
(6) Rick Blaine and His Cafe Staff; and (7) The Feds.   
  The last three groups are defined by their function in the scenes in which
they appear, and I leave it to the authors of those scenes to characterize  
them within these broad guidelines:  Peasants are peasants; Rick Blaine must
be lovable enough for Louise the secretary to want him; Feds are not lovable.   
    
  The Good Guys Ad Agency.  


  The Salesman/Business Manager:  The most business-oriented of them all, of
course. He comes up with the ideas that the rest of the group acts upon.
He is their leader.  And he likes it that way.  Famous saying, "Wait for it."   
   The Secretary:  Her name is Louise.  She handles the phone and anything else 
she can.  Q:  What do the Agency and FASS have in common?  A:  They've all  
slept with Louise.  And many of them are the father of her child.   
  The Artist:  A supposed normal, he seems like a nice enough fellow, with the  
teeny tiny exception of his obsession.  He'll sacrifice anything for this   
obsession.  We seem to have forgotten what his obsession was, so I'm accepting  
suggestions for the first five minutes of the meeting.  
  The Hacklike Copywriter:  He seems like a computer science student--a little  
inept socially, unable to meet women on terms that would satisfy a deprived 
amoeba, but deep down, he has this vision.  Quote to remember:  "I'm supposed   
to get the girl!"   
  The Off-the-wall Copywriter:  A friend to the others, he is probably the  
most anarchic.  Frankly, I always think of Groucho Marx when we talk about  
him.  He is probably the source of some of the weirder things to come out.  I   
would suspect him of liking the subway train as an office and harrassing the
people who come onto the train.  Just a fun guy.


  As a group, they get along well.  As a team, they function superbly.  All 
that the Business Manager has to do is throw out a suggestion, and they go  

into action like a well-oiled broom:  slick, but it doesn't get anywhere.   
The artist draws, the secretary phones, the copywriters copy and the business   
manager flips his flipchart.  Like clockwork.   


  The Bad Guys Ad Agency


  The Bad Guys Ad Agency (and I'm not suggesting these as the names) is run by  
slime.  Very successful slime.  Their leader is an evangelist of the revivalist 
school, though the topic that is dear to his heart is money.  The staff is made 
up of people with the following charming quirks:  One talks only in slogans.    
One is very hard sell.  Another is very "lifestyle"--he talks like they do in   
lifestyle ads..."Madge, my hands are terrible."  Another was deeply influence   
by the book "Subliminal Seduction" and sees sexual content in everything.  And  
if he can't find it, he puts it there.  This one will have to be shut up after  
every fourth line.  (If you can't get to filthy thoughts by your fourth line,   
go talk to Andrew about Marvin Gardens.)  The last is a legitimate "yes" man.   
I would suggest that though the words are always affirmative, the intonation
need not be.
  None of the people in the Bad Guys Ad Agency has a name.  They all have   

initials.  Once in a while (i.e., the funniest example of it I see), they   
will get confused by who is who.  The Bad Guys all play status games with   
each other, and not in a friendly way.  


  Generalissimo Monty Zuma and His Merry Men


  The Generalissimo is a very nice guy, sweet, kind, wonderful to his people.   
But he has this advisor--a voice in a closet--that no one knows about.  Other   
than that, he can be recognized by his love for formal costumes, his desire 
for medals, medals, and more medals, and his variety of canes and walking   
sticks for all occasions.   
  Rod:  The Generalissimo's personal secretary.  "Rod is my staff, he comforts  
me."  Little more needs to be said, other than Rod has been with the General
for many years. 
  The Merry Men:  These are all the Generals (Motors, Electric, Knowledge)  
who comprise the Armed Forces.  There are no soldiers; the people are entirely  
too laid back and drugged forward for them to be necessary. 


  The Rebels... 


  Victoria Cross:  Victoria Cross is the Generalissimo's daughter.  She is  
a failed actress, and she is more like Jane Fonda than anyone else in this  
year's show.  That shouldn't be hard. She's political, cunning and gorgeous.
  The Paranoid Leader:  He knows that the world is about to end.  We are about  
to undergo the final EcoSpasm.  Everything will be crashing down about us.  
There is little we can do about it except eat health food and rule the country.  The Drill Sergeant:  Let's fight with fruit!  He's a drill sergeant in every   
way, and he is also this year's Monty Python rip off.   
  The Environmentalist:  He believes in "soft energy" and in biodegradable  
everything.  He'd rather starve a country than kill one of the last 2,000   
rocs...assuming rocs existed.  He specializes in fuzzy thinking and a lack  
of hard facts.  
  The Jogger:  Must I go into this one?  Exercise is the best thing for you.
There's nothing more delightful in the morning than coming up against "The  
Wall."  It's a mystical experience.  So what if he has to use crutches the  
rest of the time?   
  The Vitamin Kid:  Another one whose obsession is obvious. 


  The key to handling the Rebels is that they act like a debating society   
and cannot agree on anything.   This is our less blatant Monty Python rip   r haoff.  When we first meet them, there was a sugge

off.  When we first meet them, there was a suggestion that they were doing  
a physical fitness routine--assault dancercize.  They are agreed to rule
the country--it passed unanimously at their first meeting.  


    
