


......x.
fass























.tr~    
.hy 2   
.ls 2   
.he "FASS 1979"Auditions Handout"FASS 1979" 
.fo "FASS 1979"Auditions Handout"FASS 1979" 
.ce 
.ul 
What FASS Auditions REALLY are  
.sp 
FASS auditions are our way of helping the director find out 
what you want to do in the play, and how much, so that we   
can assign you a part you can handle. We have acting,   
singing, dancing, and technical parts of all lengths, styles, and   
difficulties:  very very short parts or behind-the-scenes parts for shy people, and longer  
parts for braver people. We also want to
exploit your natural talents; if you have something special 
you can do, let us know: an accent, an expression, can sing 
or dance, fencing, ballet, scuba diving, technical expertise, etc. We may have a
position (or may quickly create one) which uses that talent.
(You may recall that we once found someone who could play   
bagpipes!) The object of all of this is to have FUN, onstage
and off.  Everyone can participate - it's up to you to help us  
place you in a comfortable niche. (Someone said that FASS   
was just an excuse to have parties anyway!) 




We will sort through all your bravery and talent over the   
weekend, weighing what you want with what the script we have
written has to offer. By
.bf 
9~A.M.~Monday January~8 
there will be a 
.bf 
Character Sign Up List  
posted just inside the  
.bf 
Stage Door  
of the  
.bf 
Theatre of the Arts 
which will tell you which part(s) you   
have been given.
.bf 
You MUST initial this list to accept your part before NOON TUESDAY. 
There will be someone in the FASS   
Office (South Campus Hall 234 B - Upstairs) all Monday to tell you more about your  
part if you are uncertain.  
.sp 
.ne4
If you are given anything more that a cameo role in the 
play, then prepare to give up an hour or two out of 90% of  
your evenings for the next month, for rehearsals.  These
start immediately   
.bf 
Tuesday January 9   
(time and place to be posted
inside the stage door when you initial to accept your part). We try to schedule rehearsals on a 
scene by scene basis, around your night classes. If you 
have many night classes, do not take a long part! Please -  
you MUST attend all rehearsals for your scene, and on time. 













Each scene, and ultimately the whole show, is a real group  
effort.  You must get to know each other's timing and   
mannerisms. FASS scenes are not fixed, they EVOLVE during   
rehearsals - missing one may leave you clueless and ruin
things for everyone else.   
.bf 2   
If time is a problem, please
don't stay out, but take a smaller part!
We are one of the   
most gregarious groups of people on campus. 
We crave participation! 
Participate!
.sp 
The show is put 
on in the Theatre of the Arts, the evenings of  
January 31, and February 1, 2, and 3 (Wednesday 
thru Saturday). 
Dress rehearsals will be held on Monday and Tuesday of that week,   
with technical rehearsals on the preceeding Saturday and Sunday.
It has been FASS tradition to hold an all-night party after the 
late Friday show, and to go to the Kitchener Market in the morning for breakfast.   
.ul2
.nf 
After auditions tonight we have party arrangements! 
.ls 1   
Ask us about them, and other cast parties!!!
.sp 
! ! ! !  W E L C O M E    T O    F A S S   ! ! ! !  
